&POWER_AEROKINESIS Power Info Database=Aerokinesis, also called Anemokinesis or Air/Wind Manipulation is the ability to mentally affect or move wind currents or wind. With this ability, one can easily resist and manipulate wind pressure, move air particles to create vacuums to suffocate foes, or send wind at foes as either gentle wisps of air to gale-force currents. One with this ability could even travel on air currents via flight or walking, or use wind currents to produce Sonic Hearing. Another faculty is Aerogenesis, in which one is capable of generating breathable air or the constituents of air.
&POWER_AGROKINESIS Power Info Database=Agrokinesis, also called Chlorokinesis, Phytokinesis, Botanokinesis or Vegetation/Plant Manipulation is the superhuman ability to mentally manipulate vegetation (wood, plants, fruits and flowers; even moss). With this ability, one could grow plants to enormous proportions in nearly any environment, and use them as weapons that can grab and attack with vines and roots, grow or retract thorns, and quickly regenerate at the user's will (or release toxins and pheromones). In the higher levels, the user may be capable of psychically converting one plant species into another or controlling plants in concentrated forms, such as clothes, paper and paper money.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Calling this ability Phyllokinesis is inaccurate. "Phyllo-" is the Greek prefix for the word "leaf", so that would be more appropriate for the manipulation of only leaves...
&POWER_ATMOKINESIS Power Info Database=Atmokinesis, also called Meteokinesis, Meteorokinesis or Atmosphere/Weather Manipulation is the ability to mentally manipulate the flux of the atmosphere at will, resulting in a change of weather patterns and formation of freak weather conditions. This ability allows generation of any natural weather condition, from fog and rain to thunderstorms, lightning, hailstorms, blizzards and hurricanes (and the calming or heightening of such conditions). At the higher bands, the user can even cause climate shifts (although sometimes one can only cause weather native to the area they are in). This ability is often accompanied by Temperature-Extreme Resistance and high resistance to extreme weather conditions.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This ability is often linked to the user's emotions (generating lightning or hail unintentionally when the user is angry, high-velocity winds when he is afraid, etc.)%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Atmokinesis often comes with a psychic restriction preventing manipulation of anything other than weather and climate patterns, as the capability to generate holes in the ozone layer, or the like, would pose the possibility of bringing harm to the user.
&POWER_CHRONOKINESIS Power Info Database=Chronokinesis, also called Horokinesis or Temporal/Time Manipulation is the ability to mentally alter the flow of time. One with this power could slow down the passage of time, speed it up, make it stop (called Time Stopping or Temporal Stasis), reverse its flow (called Time Reversal, Temporal Rewind or Redo) or even travel through time. The user could even age/de-age subjects (by progressing and/or regressing time-fields around biotic matter). A faculty of this ability entails the ability to alter one's own speed and/or that of others (called Speed Manipulation). This ability is often accompanied by Chronopathy.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Redo is also another name for the Zero-Hour Effect, a variation of Time Travel (included under the ability Dimensional Travel).
&POWER_CRYOKINESIS Power Info Database=Cryokinesis, also called Chionokinesis, Psychrokinesis or Frost/Ice Manipulation is the ability to mentally generate and manipulate ice, frost and snow. One with this ability could move ice around at will, shift ice to/from liquid or gas at will, or form constructs and basic weapons from ice as one chooses. The user could even stop hail or snow in midair, or hurl snowballs, icicles and things covered in ice at will (perhaps even to the point of inducing avalanches, breaking ice off of glaciers, etc.). This ability may or may not be accompanied by Freezing.
&POWER_ELECTROKINESIS Power Info Database=Electrokinesis is the ability to generate and mentally manipulate electricity. One with this ability could manipulate present electricity (static electricity, electrical arcs, and lightning bolts) or even create electricity. This ability could range from generating harmless static electricity to summoning ball, bolt or flash lightning. Sometimes this ability can even be used to take control of the electrons in objects, allowing motion control.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] The user of this ability may be shocked themselves if they attempt to generate electricity while wet.
&POWER_ERGOKINESIS Power Info Database=Ergokinesis, also called Energokinesis or Dynamokinesis is the ability to manipulate all forms of energy, from the electromagnetic spectrum to psychic energy (but not magic energy). One with this ability can keep energy as potential or cause it to release itself sporadically. One with this power can negate potential energy, thus keeping oneself and others in continuous motion, or the like. One with this power can even generate energy continually, and thus have peak stamina and/or release the excess energy to fly or shoot bolts, blasts or rays.
&POWER_GEOKINESIS Power Info Database=Geokinesis or Terrakinesis is the ability to mentally manipulate earth. With this ability, one could hurl rock, dirt or minerals at foes with only the power of their minds, create fissures, sinkholes, mud slides or form said rock, mud and soil into constructs, like walls or projectiles. One could even absorb any rock debris or necessary minerals out of desired subjects to use them for oneself. Another faculty of this ability is Geogenesis/Terragenesis in which one can generate earth and sediment.
&POWER_GYROKINESIS Power Info Database=Gyrokinesis, also called Gravitokinesis or Barokinesis is the ability to mentally manipulate gravity, allowing one to increase or decrease the effects of it around any desired area, to make objects extremely lighter, heavier or to even crush things by compressing them with intense gravity. One this ability can even shift his center of gravity and defy it, by walking up walls, jumping up to extreme heights, gravitating objects and subjects to or away from him and the like.
&POWER_HELIOKINESIS Power Info Database=Heliokinesis is the ability to mentally manipulate solar energy. This makes the person endowed with this ability capable of performing a special type of photosynthesis, rendering his own personal gravity field and generating nearly-perpetual energy, along with generating and manipulating stellar and solar energies in other forms. Their body is even capable of generating geomagnetic storms and solar winds, or even induce solar flares, should their power be strong enough.
&POWER_HYDROKINESIS Power Info Database=Hydrokinesis is the ability to mentally manipulate water. One with this ability could even shift water through its solid, liquid and gas phases. The ability could even be used to pull ambient moisture out of the air to form water, withstanding great water pressure, or even raise water to send it at foes in the form of tidal waves or any other form the user wishes. One with this ability can even 'rip' the water out of people, similar to Dehydration. Another faculty of this ability is Hydrogenesis/Aquagenesis in which one can generate water.
&POWER_KINETIC-ABSORPTION Power Info Database=Kinetic Absorption or Kinetic Draining (when that part of the ability is used) is the ability to take a certain type, or multiple types of energy into the body without harm to the absorber of the energy. One with this ability can usually release it at will, sometimes amplified beyond the amount received (called Kinetic Backlash). The energy, however, can also be bided until it has gained enough power to strike a deadly blow to foes (called Kinetic Charging, Kinetic Biding or Charge Building) or the energy can be turned into metabolic energy. This ability is often accompanied by Kinetic Conversion.
&POWER_KINETIC-ACCELERATION Power Info Database=Kinetic Acceleration is the ability to accelerate and or decelerate the speed of an object or a subject. One with this ability could speed up an object's motion or slow it down by pure will. However, the only downside is that an object cannot be set into motion by this ability, only sped up or slowed down if it is motion prior to use of the ability. In addition, objects of greater weight or moving faster than the user of this ability would be harder to accelerate or decelerate than things that are lighter in weight or moving slower.
&POWER_KINETIC-BACKLASH Power Info Database=Kinetic Backlash is the ability to take absorbed kinetic energy from a blow or an attack and send it back at foes with equal or amplified force as the original blows or strikes. One with this ability could absorb nearly any hit, and then either give back the same force in the form of another attack or send it back multiplied. This ability is usually accompanied with Super Endurance and can even use kinetic energy simply from the user's motion.
&POWER_KINETIC-CONVERSION Power Info Database=Kinetic Conversion is the superhuman ability to physically absorb and psychically convert one form of energy into another form. For example, one with this ability could absorb sound energy and convert it into light energy, or absorb psionic energy and convert it into heat energy. One with this ability could even turn psionic energy into nuclear energy. This ability can be used to turn detrimental types of energy into harmless types, and vice versa (although one may only be able to convert one form of energy).
&POWER_KINETIC-NEGATION Power Info Database=Kinetic Negation is the ability to psychically keep any subject from moving by deactivating kinetic energy and converting it into potential energy. This can be used to prevent movement, stop anything that is currently moving, or even suspend something in its place by keeping it from moving forward, backward, side-to-side or up and down.
&POWER_KINETIC-REDIRECTION Power Info Database=Kinetic Redirection is the ability to psychically change the path of an object in motion. The ability can only affect an object in motion, and will be utterly useless on anything otherwise. There are also some other restrictions, however. Some people with the ability have difficulty based on mass and can only move lighter objects with ease, while other people have difficulty based on speed and can more easily move slow moving objects.
&POWER_MAGNETOKINESIS Power Info Database=Magnetokinesis or Magnetic/Magnetism Manipulation is the ability to mentally alter magnetic fields in order to increase, decrease or redirect the flow of magnetic energy. With little concentration, the user could move/manipulate magnetic metals (even using the power of magnetism to attract/repel them). One with this ability could even reverse the polarity of magnetic fields, (sometimes) deactivate magnetism in normally-magnetic metals or disorient users of Magnetoception, by shifting fields of magnetic flux.
&POWER_PYROKINESIS Power Info Database=Pyrokinesis is the ability to mentally create and manipulate fire. One with this ability can excite the atoms within an object, possibly enough energy to ignite the object. A pyrokinetic is a person capable of generating flames from thin air, not requiring the consumption of oxygen or combustible objects to maintain the flames. They have been seen being able to increase the temperature in their proximity, create flames, and endure extreme heat and flame without being harmed.
&POWER_QUINTESSENCE-EMANATION Power Info Database=*|Quintessence Emanation, also called Quintessence Generation/Exudation or Ether Generation/Secretion is the radiation and manipulation of pure energy. One with this ability could increase their own physical capabilities, such as defiance of gravity or focus into powerful concussive blasts. One with this ability has altered senses, agility, speed, reflexes, etc. and is capable of perpetual energy generation (no need for sleep, rest, or food/water). It may be the only ability that power mimicry cannot replicate, as the energy is generated, not manipulated from outside sources.
&POWER_THERMOKINESIS Power Info Database=Thermokinesis is the ability to mentally manipulate the motion of molecules, thus changing temperature in the immediate vicinity. This can range from controlling body temperature (called Body Temperature Manipulation or Body Temperature Control) to generating mass heat waves or massive cold fronts. This ability does not change the weather immediately, it only changes how hot or cold things are, sometimes resulting in changing the weather. This ability may be accompanied by the ability to resist temperature extremes, as well Freezing, Burning, Atmokinesis or the like.
&POWER_TYCHOKINESIS Power Info Database=Tychokinesis, also called Stochokinesis/Stochastokinesis or Luck/Probability Manipulation is the ability to mentally alter the flow of stochastic fields, allowing one to generate good or bad "luck". One with this ability could give oneself and/or one's allies uncanny good luck, afflict foes with really bad luck, etc. The user might even be able to psychically amplify stochastic fields to set events into motion (instead of influencing events already in play) as long as there is a chance the event would happen anyway, and thus causing normally-improbable events to happen, normally-likely events to not happen, or the like.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Sometimes the user's power is only set to cause good luck (called Luck Inducing or Fortune Inducing) or only set to cause bad luck (called Bad Luck Inducing, Misfortune Inducing or Luck Negation). It may even be set to reverse a subject's luck, regardless of if it is currently good or bad (called Luck Reversal).
&POWER_TYPHOKINESIS Power Info Database=Typhokinesis or Capnokinesis is the ability to mentally generate and manipulate smoke. One possessing this ability can generate or clear clouds of smoke, or pollute air by converting immense amounts of normal air into poison smoke to harm foes (or turn it into harmless smoke as a means of cover or stealth). One with this ability could even breathe normally in smoky air.
&POWER_ECHOLOCATION Power Info Database=Echolocation is the ability to release a sonic vibration (either telepathically -- known as Telepathic Echolocation -- or vocally), which bounces off of the surfaces of objects and subjects in order to allow the user of this ability a visual awareness of their surroundings. One with this ability must either be blind, have his or her eyes closed, or be in darkness in order to use this ability effectively. One with this ability could also use the vibrations of movement (his own or the movements of others) in order to see his environment. This ability may or may not be accompanied by Sonokinesis or Seismokinesis.
&POWER_FORCE-FIELD-GENERATION Power Info Database=Forcefield Generation, also called Forcefield Projection or Force Field Generation/Projection is the ability to generate fields/bubbles of energy (psychic, psionic, or the like) that keep anything outside the field/bubble from entering, and anything within from exiting. Occasionally the field can be varied in size and may allow one to bounce or roll in it similar to a hamster ball (or even to slide on it) and it may reseal if penetrated. The user can sometimes even move objects caught within them. However, another version allows the user to subconsciously create the forcefield, upon detecting negative emotions or hostile intent, or perhaps any impending danger (called Empathic Forcefield).%r%r%tUsed offensively, sometimes the forcefield (or the energy normally used to generate the forcefield) can be hurled or thrust at a foe to push them away from the user when the user requires more force than he is currently providing (called Force Push).
&POWER_IMPERCEPTIBILITY Power Info Database=Imperceptibility or Incorporeality is the ability to sheathe one's body in psychic energy, which in turn makes the user unable to be detected by one, a few or all of the senses. This aura is not the same for every faculty, however, and it may allow the user to psychically induce any of the following effects:%r%r%t* Invisibility - the inability to be perceived by the sense of sight (user is immune to light-based attacks and illusions in this state, and no light is required to see); if the psychic aura deflects/distorts light or sheathes the user in invisible energy, the user is rendered unseen to the naked eye (he becomes invisible).%r%t* Inaudibility - the inability to be perceived by the sense of hearing (ability to keep sounds from oneself or other sources from being heard); if the psychic aura deflects (but doesn't absorb) sound and/or negates sensory in the ears of others, then the user will become inaudible.%r%t* Insipidity - the inability to be perceived by the sense of taste (ability to negate one's own taste or the taste of other things, such as poisons); if the psychic aura deactivates the sensory (both taste and feeling) in the tongue and the taste buds, then the user will become insipid.%r%t* Inodorosity - the inability to be perceived by the sense of smell (ability to deactivate one's own or another odor, such as the odor of rotten food, etc.); if the psychic aura defers air waves and/or deactivates the sensory in the nose, then the user will become inodorous.%r%t* Entire Imperceptibility - the inability to be perceived by any sense at all (not on any band of the light spectrum, on any frequency of audibility or the like; not even ESP, Scopaesthesia or the most advanced equipment, aside from Omniscience?this is even more rare than normal imperceptibility).%r%t* Selective Imperceptibility - the inability to be detected by selected people (people without a positive empathic link to the user or the like).%r%t* Electronic Imperceptibility or Digital/Cybernetic/Mechanical Imperceptibility - the inability to be detected or controlled by machines (even if it is a video camera or a sonar machine, it won't pick the user up); the user is otherwise perfectly perceptible.%r%t* Catoptric Imperceptibility - the inability to be seen in any reflective surface; simply put, absence of a reflection, despite having a physical form (inability to even be seen through windows or people's glasses); accomplished by psionic prevention of light reflection off normally-reflective surfaces.%r%t* Telesthetic Imperceptibility or Telesthetic Immunity - the inability to be detected by Telesthetic abilities (cannot be felt by Telesthesia or affected up by Telekinesis; can bypass telekinetic forcefields); inability to be contacted by the ability Telepresence, ESP, Sense Projection or the like.%r%r%tIf said aura does all of first five given functions, then the user of the ability becomes completely imperceptible to the senses. Obviously, this ability can be used to surpass sensory detection by others, but only the senses of living things (cameras, motion sensors and the like can still pick up on the user, unless he has Electronic Imperceptibility). This most effective if one is entirely imperceptible to the typical five senses, although it is rare that this occurs within a single superhuman.
&POWER_MICROWAVE-EMISSION Power Info Database=Microwave Emission is the ability to generate and project microwaves, usually through the hands. The subject on whom this ability is used acts much like they would if they were placed inside a microwave oven. This ability causes plastic to melt, flesh to burn, liquids to boil, etc.
&POWER_OPTIKINESIS Power Info Database=Optikinesis, also called Ophthalmokinesis or Optic/Vision/Eyesight Manipulation is the ability to mentally manipulate eyes and eyesight in one's own body, or the bodies of others. One with this ability can cause illusions by changing what people see, induce different visual aspects, or the like. Vision can also be distorted so things appear to be moving opposite their actual direction (called the Parallax Effect). At the higher levels the user may even be able to induce blindness (or alleviate it) as well as control the movements of the eye itself.
&POWER_PHOTOKINESIS Power Info Database=Photokinesis, also called Lumokinesis, Luminokinesis or Photon/Light Manipulation is the ability to mentally alter light particles so that one might be able to generate, manipulate and intensify light at will. This ability can be used to increase one?s vision range, bend light around oneself (to turn invisible), perhaps bend light to cast optical illusions, and even fire offensive lasers, rays or bolts of light, of varying heat and intensity (from heat rays to freeze rays), or just concussive light beams. One with this ability may even be able to form solid constructs of light or access the abilities Luminescence and/or Light Absorption.
&POWER_RADIATION-MANIPULATION Power Info Database=Radiation Manipulation also known as Radiokinesis or Induced Radioactivity is the superhuman ability to generate and manipulate various types and amounts of radiation. One with this ability could generate an EMP, ultraviolet, nuclear or various other types of radiation. One with this ability could withstand it, absorb it and induce anywhere from an explosion of combustible radiation, to a nuclear mushroom cloud. This ability could even be used to manipulate radio waves to simulate broadcasts.
&POWER_SONOKINESIS Power Info Database=Sonokinesis, also called Sonikinesis, Audiokinesis, Acoustokinesis/Acoustikinesis or Sound Wave/Sound Manipulation is the ability to mentally manipulate sound waves. This can be used to go beyond one?s current vocal ability, allowing one to project one's voice or any other noise at extremely high/low decibels, or to change the tone, pitch or volume of any desired sound, as well as what sound is projected (or how many sounds). This ability can even convert regular sound waves into concussive blasts. Sometimes, the user can only manipulate sounds after they have bounced off of surfaces, when they are somewhat weaker (called Echokinesis or Echo Manipulation). This power can be accompanied by Sonic Abilities, also called Sonic Offense implies the presence of sonokinetic faculties that are focused into specific forms, and can only be used in that form. These may include:%r%r%t* Sonic Scream, also called Voice/Vocal Amplification - the ability to generate a supersonic (louder-than-audible) or subsonic (lower-than-audible) scream which is capable of breaking glass, deafening foes and sometimes knocking people unconscious or disrupting thought; if one's voice is permanently amplified (so every word or breath projects at high decibels), it is called Amplified Voice.%r%t* Sonic Wall - the ability to generate a wall of sound which can deflect projectiles and detain hearing creatures as well as a solid wall; also capable of shaking up sentient creatures that pass through the wall.%r%t* Sonic Boom, also called Sonic Clap or Sonic Stomp - the generation of sonic percussion by clapping the hands, or stomping the feet; the user could even break glass, knock people back or liquefy small objects.%r%t* Sonic Tube - the ability to generate a "tube" of sound waves which carries sound to/from any desired destination to/from the user so he can hear/communicate verbal messages or eavesdrop on conversations%r%t* Sonic Lance - the ability to hurl sound waves at foes, which in turn does damage like a blunt weapon (knocking foes back, severely disorienting them and the like)%r%t* Sound Field, also called Vocal Field or Sound/Voice Distortion Field - the ability to generate a field which distorts any sound made within the field (making a baby's crying sound like gunshots, or making a dog's barks sound like groaning ghosts and the like)%r%r%tNot all sonic faculties are meant to disorient hearing; some attack like blunt force, while others disorient and still others mimic, distort or otherwise influence sound or the person hearing it. As such, numerous other sonokinetic faculties are possible.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If the user's voice is enhanced with psionic energy instead of projecting louder-or-lower-than-audible volume (the voice sounds louder because of psionic energy, not actual sound, but still has the force of a Sonic Scream), the ability is instead called a Psionic Scream or a Psionic Voice. This ability allows one to affect even those who are deaf (those who have Psionic Detection are especially vulnerable), and cannot be resisted with Sonic Absorption.
&POWER_SYNAESTHETIC-SONOKINESIS Power Info Database=Synaesthetic Sonokinesis, also called Enhanced Synaesthesia, Synesthetic Sonokinesis, Synaesthetic Sound Manipulation, Synesthetic Sound Manipulation or Synaesthetic Effect is the innate empathic connection of one's mind to the force and effect produced by sound waves. This ability allows the user to not only perceive sound waves as visible light, but also to bend sound to one's emotions, to produce numerous effects like a sonic lance that happens when the user feels negative emotion, or hypnotic/alluring/mesmerizing effects produced by a desire to somehow influence, affect and otherwise interact with a subject or a foe.%r%r%tThe superhuman with this ability can perceive sound as light even if they can still perceive sound through their sense of hearing.
&POWER_TELEMETRY Power Info Database=Telemetry, also known as Electronic/Digital Communication is the psychic perception, detection and the manipulation of the digital/electronic/radio waves within electronic devices. The user acts as a living internet hub, allowing them to sift through the internet and electronic/digital/radio waves with their mind. Furthermore, they can manipulate existing waves and receive and create their own, giving them the ability to communicate with any computer or radio on the fly, regardless of whether it has a working connection.%r%r%tThis ability may also allow the projection of one's voice over radio, digital or electronic transmissions or recordings (called the Electric Voice Effect/Phenomenon or EVE or EVP).
&POWER_UMBRAKINESIS Power Info Database=Umbrakinesis, also called Sciakinesis, Scotokinesis or Shadow/Darkforce/Darkness Manipulation is the ability to mentally generate and manipulate darkness (deactivated photons, not the absence of light). One with this ability can even deactivate and/or repulse photons or travel through shadows (called Umbrageous Teleportation), by converting deactivated photons into a dark version of a portal. One with this power could surround foes in pitch black clouds of lightless space, turn deactivated photons into constructs (similar to Photokinesis), or shoot bolts of solid darkness at foes.
&POWER_CELLULOKINESIS Power Info Database=Cellulokinesis or Cellular Transmutation, also known as Transfiguration or Transmogrification is the ability to psychically manipulate the cells of other biotic subjects, turning living things into other living things. One with this ability can transmute a person into a dog, or turn heart cells into brain cells, or even destroy cancerous cells. One with this ability can even amalgamate the cells of two creatures of the same species to make a larger one, or mix the cells of two different species to make a new species entirely.
&POWER_DENSITY-SHIFTING Power Info Database=Density Shifting is the ability to use psionic power to alter one's own density concentration. This ability can be used to become extremely dense, so the body is nearly impenetrable and hits are powerfully concussive, or to become intangible, so as to evade concussive blows altogether. Usually this ability only allows one type of density shifting or the other; however, it is not uncommon for the user to become dense or intangible as desired. Sometimes this ability could even be used to change the compactness of other things as well (called Density Manipulation). This ability can allow Superhuman Endurance (if the user compacts himself) or Levity (if the user disperses oneself).%r%r%tSize-Altering Density Shifting, also called Size-Dilating Density Shifting is a version of Density Shifting in which the compaction/expansion of the user's molecules results in a change in size as well as a change in density. If the user compacts his molecules so that he can become denser, he will also become smaller (but will retain weight, strength and durability as if he were normal size). If the user loosens his molecules to become less dense, he will become larger (psionic energy will fill in the gaps where the outspread molecules leave empty spaces, so that the user is tangible, and still has a definite shape; he still retains weight and strength).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This ability is often confused with true Size Shifting.
&POWER_DISINTEGRATION Power Info Database=Disintegration is the ability to psychically cause molecular decay. The subject on whom the ability has been used usually falls in a heap of a substance similar to ashes. However, other versions of this ability cause the subject to be turned into similarly charged ions, and thus they disperse (called another version of Ionization or Ionic Conversion) or they burst into a cloud of powder (called Pulverization). However, another faculty of this ability allows one to reverse the effects of Disintegration (this is called Reintegration).%r%r%tThe power is psychic, but exuded through the hands and is usually voluntary, but is sometimes accidental or permanently activated.
&POWER_LEPTOKINESIS Power Info Database=Leptokinesis, also called Nanokinesis or Atomic/Molecular/Matter Manipulation is the ability to mentally manipulate molecules and to manipulate objects/subjects on a molecular level. One with this ability could change the molecules of objects to turn them into different shapes, change the properties of objects and structures, to make them more pliable, elastic, round, short, large, small or the like. The user could even possibly separate his own molecules to become intangible and phase through subjects, or separate the molecules of other subjects to vaporize, dissolve or rearrange any object/subject that one desires.
&POWER_LIFE-FORCE-ABSORPTION Power Info Database=*|Life-Force Absorption is the superhuman ability to to psychically absorb the vitality of subjects. The faculty of this ability can leave a foe fatigued to the point of extreme over-exhaustion. One with this ability could eventually absorb enough life-force to kill foes and/or return oneself to full vitality. However, this ability is also accompanied by the ability Life-Force Projection.
&POWER_LIFE-FORCE-PROJECTION Power Info Database=Life-Force Projection is the superhuman ability to to psychically return the vitality of subjects. With this ability one could restore enough life-force to rejuvenate vitality of those who are tired or nearly-dead, or to resurrect recently-dead (intact) subjects. However, this ability is also accompanied by the ability Life-Force Absorption or Power Drain.
&POWER_PEPTOKINESIS Power Info Database=Peptokinesis is the ability to shift the acidity or baseness of any liquid from basic to acid, or vice versa. One with this ability can even make acids or bases neutral, resist acidic corrosion as well as basic corrosion, and render soaps as acidic dangers, and hydrochloric acid harmless as drinking a glass of milk. However, another faculty of this ability may also include the manipulation of acidic or basic (or both) substances besides simply changing the pH (moving them, changing the physical state, etc.).
&POWER_SOLIDIFICATION Power Info Database=Solidification, also called Substantiation is the ability to solidify any intangible subject or the ability to increase the rigidity of any solid construct or structure. This ability can be used to solidify light beams to use as weapons, or to solidify radio waves to cause them to fall out of the sky (preventing radio transmissions), or to trap a foe in their clothes by making them extremely rigid, and the like. One with this ability could even negate Intangibility. When subjects are solidified, they lose the ability to go through solid objects, yet they keep their defining properties (fire still burns, water is still wet and puts out fire, lightning still shocks).
&POWER_STRUCTURE-WEAKENING Power Info Database=Structure Weakening, known colloquially as Crumpling is the ability to psychically weaken the structure of any solid subject, allowing them to be broken very easily. This ability can allow a person of average strength to break through walls, knock out foes or tear through any other subjects without the slightest of effort (although they could not lift very heavy materials as a part of this ability, and thus it is not Superhuman Strength). This can be used on any solid material, even bones and other biotic materials.
&POWER_TELEKINESIS Power Info Database=Telekinesis, also called Psychokinesis, Telergy or Psychergy is the ability for a person to psychically influence tangible matter with the intangible mind. One with this ability could mentally lift subjects that are usually far too heavy to lift with the user's actual arms. This may include or be limited to one of the following:%r%r%t* Ballistic Telekinesis, also called Combat Telekinesis or (more colloquially) Havoc is the untamed version of Telekinesis. This ability causes any nearby objects to move around the user at high speeds, explode or to be propelled away from the user at high speeds without conscious effort from the user of the power (the ability is activated by the user feeling that he or she is in danger, or being under extreme emotional stress). One with this ability could move objects that weigh far more than he/she does.%r%t* Vector Telekinesis, like normal Telekinesis, is the ability for a person to psychically influence tangible matter with the intangible mind. However, instead of simply using psychic force to move and manipulate objects, one with this ability manifests it as a set of invisible appendages of telekinetic energy. These are capable of lifting objects with more strength and maneuvering with much more dexterity than normal Telekinesis, allowing one to do many tasks at once as though one had multiple hands. These tasks can be as tough as lifting a truck to as fine as typing on the computer or juggling.%r%t* Tactile Telekinesis is the ability to channel the psychic energy that allows telekinesis through the hands, so as to appear as though one had superhuman strength. One with this ability has nearly all the same faculties as super strength (hitting with phenomenal force, have an amazing grip, and easily manipulate tough materials). One with this ability, however, could only lift or manipulate objects based on the level of his telekinesis, which would have to develop over time.%r%r%tOne with this ability could toss, grab, lift, levitate and otherwise interface with physically tangible subjects even to the point of manipulation from a great distance and manipulation of concealed subjects that the user can't even see. The primary type of Telekinesis is most common.
&POWER_TRANSMUTATION Power Info Database=Transmutation or Transmogrification is the ability to psychically turn one substance into another substance. One with this ability could do this one of two ways. The first version of this ability is Molecular Transmutation or Molecular Transmogrification, in which one rearranges the molecules of objects, transforming them into something that it is already similar to, such as water into hydrogen and oxygen. The second version is called Atomic Transmutation or Atomic Transmogrification, in which one rearranges the atoms of objects to turn a substance into another substance entirely, such as turning lead to gold or water to diamond.%r%r%tOther forms of transmutation (such as Cellular Transmutation or Mechanical Transmutation) change the form and function of entire systems, not just one substance, and thus cannot be counted as actual Transmutation.
&POWER_TRIBOKINESIS Power Info Database=Tribokinesis, also called Friction Manipulation is the ability to psychically generate, decrease and otherwise manipulate friction. One with this ability could easily increase air friction, making the air too difficult to walk through (or making bodies of water too difficult to swim through), or decrease friction on a floor to make it slippery. The user could even increase friction to keep subjects from slipping on normally-slippery surfaces, decrease personal friction to escape the grasp of foes, or make normal surfaces abrasive, so they scratch and bruise foes.
&POWER_VAPORIZATION Power Info Database=Vaporization is the ability to psychically disrupt or superheat atoms, to the point that their bonds are broken, and a subject's atoms disperse into a form similar to a super hot gas. The atoms then usually float away because of their lack of molecular cohesion. The power is psychic, and may be exuded through the eyes, hands or directly from the mind. It is usually voluntary, but is sometimes accidental, and can be activated by extreme emotions of any kind.
&POWER_BIOKINESIS Power Info Database=Biokinesis, also called Somatokinesis, Genetokinesis (when that faculty is used) or Genetic/DNA/Bodily Manipulation is the mental ability to alter DNA structure and body functions. The user of this ability can manipulate hair color/texture, skin color, height and weight (to an extent), facial features, physical age, gender and the like (even perhaps to the point of healing, regenerating, inducing or eradicating disease, shifting from one species to another, or bestowing superhuman abilities on others). As such, use of nearly any physical ability can be derived from adept application of this ability.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Shapeshifting with this ability may be restricted to forms of the same mass (for example, one couldn't use it become the size of a mouse or an elephant); however, some with this ability can induce rapid cellular generation or degradation to surpass this limit.
&POWER_ESCAPE-ARTISTRY Power Info Database=Escape Artistry, also called Escaping Skill or Easy Escape is the ability to easily wriggle out of binds, or otherwise escape captivity with relative ease. One with this ability can easily slip through the bars of a barred gate, or follow how knots are tied to figure how to either untie them or get free from them easily. The user is often very good at exposing faults in traps, binds, fetters, bonds and is a brilliant saboteur when it comes to anything meant to ensnare. Only extremely tough materials are capable of holding the user. This ability is usually accompanied by Flexibility and/or Superhuman Sapience.
&POWER_FLIGHT Power Info Database=Flight is the ability to defy gravity in order to propel oneself through the air. One with this ability can accomplish it in one of multiple ways. Either their body projects an electromagnetic aura around them, which repulses the user from the ground and allows propulsion from one point to another. Others include the use of magnetic, gravitational or sonic repulsion, riding air waves, riding light waves, projection of an energy aura, the presence of physical wings and the like. This ability may be accompanied by Jet Propulsion or some other aerial faculty.
&POWER_HEALING Power Info Database=Healing, also called Restoration or Restore is the ability to mend the damaged anatomy in subjects. This is usually accomplished by use of psychic energy, the user's life force, or even via blood transfusion between a superhuman who can regenerate and the subject that needs to be healed. Either version can be used to cure anywhere from paper cuts or broken bones to diseases that supposedly have no cure and otherwise-irreparable injury. A variation of this ability can even heal psychological damage/trauma, improve mental (and emotional) wellness, and return lost memories (called Psychic Healing, Mental Healing, or Mental Awakening).%r%r%tAnother faculty of this ability, called Purification or Cleansing is the ability to expunge poisons and toxins from the bodies of affected subjects. This ability does not undo damage done by poisons, toxins and pathogens; it only gets rid of (or negates the effects of) the pathogens, preventing the start of damage (or preventing further damage). This faculty may accompany or occur separately from Healing.
&POWER_HEIGHT-SHIFTING Power Info Database=Height Shifting or Length Shifting is a variation of Size Shifting in which the user can only change his height or the length of limbs. One with this ability may shorten himself to avoid blows, or lengthen his legs to travel easily across vast distances (or if he has a height complex), and the like. This ability doesn't change the elasticity of limbs; it just changes the length of limbs or appendages, and the height of the user. Sometimes this ability could be used to change the height/length of other things as well (called Height/Length Manipulation). This superhuman ability may accompany normal Size Shifting.
&POWER_HORMOKINESIS Power Info Database=Hormokinesis, also known as Hormone Manipulation is the ability to psychically generate and manipulate hormones in one's own body, or the bodies of others. One with this ability could release hormones that do everything from inducing changes similar to those undergone in puberty (acne, rapid or impeded growth, psychological imbalance, etc.) to altering body temperature, or inducing other bodily dysfunction. The user could even alter sexual fertility in subjects, heighten or reduce the effects of others' hormones or the like.
&POWER_INTANGIBILITY Power Info Database=Intangibility or Phasing is the inability to be perceived by the sense of touch (ability to go through solid surfaces, or perhaps people can't feel the user's touch); if the psychic aura separates the user's molecules and/or prevents sensory in others nerves, then the user becomes intangible.
&POWER_INVULNERABILITY Power Info Database=Invulnerability, also known as Indestructibility or Invincibility is the ability to resist all forms of damage. One with this ability has a subliminal aura that surrounds his cells which keeps them from being damaged from impact, or the person's body has cells which absorb all manners of concussion from blows that would otherwise cause extreme damage, even fatality. Sometimes, however, it can also be used to resist any sort of assault on the body, from mental/telepathic abilities, to physical concussive force, even poisons and illnesses, until nothing short of divinity can do damage to this person. It is possible that one with this ability could die of old age, though.%r%r%tSometimes this ability is limited to Indestructible Skin, so the user's skin is simply an indestructible and impenetrable armor. This version of the ability still allows the user to be hurt from the inside.
&POWER_LASER-VISION Power Info Database=Laser Vision or Optic Blast is the ability to psychically reflect and refract light at the same time, or so as to project lasers of light energy from the corneas of the eyes (or to absorb ambient energy, and project the absorbed energy through the eyes). This light can be projected at varied temperatures and intensities, so as to act as a concussive beam, a heat beam or an ice beam (but only rarely can it act as all three for the same user). This ability may or may not be able to be turned off at will, and could be accompanied by another aspect of vision.
&POWER_LONGEVITY Power Info Database=Longevity, also known as Decelerated Aging or Retarded Aging is the ability to live longer than any normal human. This ability usually occurs when the cells of the user of the ability die and regenerate at an equal rate, thus halting the aging process and keeping the user of the ability in a state of biological stasis, in which their bodies do not suffer the crippling effects of age, disease or death. Although, it may originate from the body's naturally-or-unnaturally slowed aging, in which case the person could be killed (and thus they are not immortal), while it extremely difficult to do so to a person with the first type of longevity.
&POWER_MATTER-INGESTION Power Info Database=Matter Ingestion or Digestive Adaptation is the superhuman ability to ingest and pass any substance through the body without the substance inducing bodily harm, even if it is corrosive like acid or sharp like glass or dense like titanium. People with this ability can accomplish this one of a few ways; either their physiology is built for the ingestion of any material (pliable digestive tract, super-strong teeth), or they are capable of psychically rendering a subject harmless so that it is safe enough to ingest (the digestive tract may even reactively adapt). People with this ability are immune to food-borne sicknesses like food-poisoning, alcohol poisoning or salmonella.
&POWER_METABOLIC-CONTROL Power Info Database=Metabolic Control, also called Biofeedback is the psychic ability to control one's bodily functions. This can allow the user of the power to control voluntarily bodily actions like heartbeat, breathing and digestion. One with this ability could use it to feign illness (he can reduce or raise the immune system), resist illness, change the speed of the healing process and control the speed by which the body fights off illness, loses weight or metabolizes food. Even the rate at which the lungs convert oxygen to carbon dioxide can be changed, and thus the length of time a person can hold his breath.%r%r%tAnother faculty of this ability allows one to psychically "communicate" with one's (usually internal) organs as though they were separate entities, in order to tell them not to digest poisons, to speed up or slow down, reduce fatigue-inducing toxins in the body and the like (this is called Endopathy or Metabolic Empathy).
&POWER_MUSCLE-MIMICRY Power Info Database=Muscle Mimicry, also known as Adoptive Muscle Mimicry or Photographic Reflexes is the ability to flawlessly imitate any movement or series of movements (even skills such as fighting, artistry or musical talents), provided that you have perceived it performed by someone else. The user of this ability must psychometrically align their bodies with the skeletal, muscular and nervous systems of the subject that they watch, allowing them to psychically determine the exact posture to take in order to reproduce any motion, posture or action exactly. The motion or skill set is retained in the memory of the user after a short trance of motion memory.
&POWER_OSTEOKINESIS Power Info Database=Osteokinesis, also called Osseokinesis, Ossiokinesis or Skeletal/Bone Manipulation is the ability to mentally manipulate bones in one's own body, or the bodies of others. One with this ability could alter bone density (from making bones hollow like a bird, to making them as hard as steel), bone flexibility and pliability and the rate of bone healing. The user can also make bones grow through the skin to form plates of armor. At the higher levels, the user could even incapacitate foes by causing bones in the legs, arms, ribs or necks to break (or go limp).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] The user often has somewhat-pliable skin, and/or Rapid Regeneration, to recover from bone protrusion from the skin.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Sometimes, the user has the ability to mentally manipulate cartilage instead of, or along with, normal bone; this is referred to as Cartilage Manipulation.
&POWER_RAPID-REGENERATION Power Info Database=Rapid Regeneration also called Rapid Cellular Regeneration, Accelerated Regeneration, Regeneration, Regenerative Healing or a Healing Factor is the ability to regenerate at a superhumanly quick rate. One with this ability regenerates as an automatic response to injury, and usually does so within less than a minute (though over a minute is not uncommon). The user can also regenerate normally unregenerate body parts. The user can even sometimes still function as vital organs regenerate. In some cases, the ability even results in the stunting of aging/development if it is employed too many times.%r%r%tSometimes the user doesn't regenerate spontaneously after an injury; it may sometimes take as much as a day or even up to a week, but the user still heals faster than he normally would. In other variations, the user must will wounds to regenerate (the regeneration is not automatic).%r%r%tOne of the only ways to defeat someone who can regenerate is by destroying (or significantly injuring) the brain.
&POWER_SIZE-SHIFTING Power Info Database=Size Shifting is the ability to use psionic power to increase/decrease one's size at will. Sometimes the user can only become larger (called Growing, Enlargement or Magnification) or only become smaller (called Shrinking, Diminution or Miniaturization) and then go back to normal size. However, it is most common that one can actually choose between shrinking and growing to the desired size. Sometimes this ability can also (or only) be used to change the size of other things (called Size Manipulation). This ability is usually accompanied by Superhuman Endurance and/or Strength (for growers) or Superhuman Agility or Stealth (for shrinkers).
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-ACCURACY Power Info Database=Superhuman Accuracy, also called Superaccuracy or Superacuity is the peak of activity in the user's brain center for aim, accuracy and precision. A person with this superhuman ability needs only to aim for an instant before they can precisely hit a target with a weapon or a blow. This ability would even allow one to judge distances accurately, so one can gauge the strength needed to throw a weapon, in order to hit a target accurately. Such a superhuman might also be resistant to perception-distorting abilities such as Luminescence.%r%r%tThis ability also implies proficient hand-eye coordination and maybe an affinity for ballistic weapons (a gun, slingshot, etc.), bladed weapons, or marksmanship (archery), because of the precision those activities require.
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-AWARENESS Power Info Database=Superhuman Awareness or Superawareness is the peak of consciousness and awareness. The user can sense their environment (the presence, position and motion of others, etc.), and could tell when the slightest changes occur (a footstep, an increase in heartbeat, atmospheric changes, temperature changes, etc). They also wake up from being unconscious without being groggy, could not get vertigo or be easily disoriented, and often aren't even subject to psychic mental distortion (no Madness Inducing or the like). It is possible their mind could be dominated, but they would know it was happening.
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-ENDURANCE Power Info Database=Superhuman Endurance, also called Superhuman Durability, Superendurance or Superdurability is the ability to resist damage beyond an average person. This can be accomplished by either exceptionally tough skin, or a psychic force covering the skin, so he can perceive sensation, but cannot easily be hurt or stunned from concussive damage (normal weapons don't easily inflict damage). A faculty of this ability, called Superhuman Resistance, Superhuman Tolerance or Resistance/Tolerance specifies what the user has resistance against. Examples include Temperature Extremes (Hot/Cold), Radiation, and Electricity. Superhuman Resistance must be specified (numerous kinds exist).%r%r%tAnother faculty of this ability, however, may refer to having exceptional stamina (this is called Superhuman Stamina, Superstamina or Stamina), which allows one to stay active for far longer before the user even begins to tire.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This ability is NOT the same as Invulnerability; if the two abilities were to be rated on a power scale, Superhuman Endurance would represent the lower end of the spectrum, while Invulnerability would represent the higher end (first there is human endurance, then Superhuman Endurance, then Natural Armor, including the superhuman feature Impenetrable Skin, and lastly Invulnerability, providing the most resistance to damage).
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-REFLEXES Power Info Database=Superhuman Reflexes or Super-Reflexes implies the presence of a reaction impulse and reaction time beyond that of a normal human. One with this ability can dodge bullets, catch flies mid-air and react to incoming impacts in a way that seems almost prescient. If a foe tried to punch the user, for example, he could dodge the hit and retaliate before the foe even lands a blow. In the same way, if he was about to place his hand unknowingly on the eye of a hot stove, his reflexes would retract his hand before he even felt or noticed the heat. This ability may accompany (and help combat a user of) Superhuman Speed.%r%r%tBecause of the user's superhuman ability to react to stimuli beyond the capability of others, he is capable of making a move, realizing it was a bad move, and correcting it in nearly one action (making him also adept at dodging and evasion).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This ability does not imply that the user's reflexes are just fast, but also smart; the user's instincts quickly register threats in the mind (perhaps before the user consciously realizes it), and then coordinate a smart response to said threat (deciding what action to take to avoid the threat, and impulsively carrying out the action before conscious thought can hinder the reaction's speed or smoothness).
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-SAPIENCE Power Info Database=Superhuman Sapience or Supersapience is the presence of a brilliant strategic mind. It is a very powerful ability; not strong as physical power, but one with this ability is very cunning and crafty. When the user is confronted with a problem, their brain automatically reverts back to what they know to be common sense, allowing them to systematically work toward nearly any solution. This gifts them with excellent leadership skills and a knack for tricking opponents. This ability may be accompanied by Circumlocution and often (but not always) accompanies Superhuman Intelligence.%r%r%tAnother faculty of this ability allows the user to practice extreme patience, so that he can intuit the correct time to strike, how to resist and resolve disputes and arguments or even resist temptation, be it of a violent, sexual or immoral nature or the like; they may even be able to resist low-level telepathy and low-level mental, body, or spiritual domination (this faculty is called Superhuman Willpower or Superhuman Patience).
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-SENSES Power Info Database=Superhuman Senses, also called Supersenses, Superhuman Sensing, Supersensing, Superhuman Perception or Super-Perception indicates the presence of sensory organs that work far better than the sense organs of normal humans, and thus senses which outdo the capability of normal human perception. These enhanced senses are simply heightened versions of one's normal senses, and thus they include:%r%r%t1. Superhuman Touch or Supertouch - They can feel the most minute indentation on a page, allowing one to read by touch (if they are blind, in the dark, or the like), detect the presence of trap-doors, feel vibrations of oncoming foes in the air, on the ground and the like; may be accompanied by the ability Superhuman Reflexes and perhaps an extra sensitivity to changes in temperature and pressure.%r%t2. Superhuman Smell or Supersmell - They can smell odors with more clarity and range, even to the point of distinguishing subjects by their scents; they can track subjects and distinguish between simultaneously-occurring smells (as well as being able to take notice of when someone has masked their natural scent); however, they may also be involuntarily sensitive to loud smells, aromatic attacks and nasal-based allergens.%r%t3. Superhuman Taste or Supertaste - They can taste hints of things that have been long washed off of surfaces, and tell the ingredients within foods (with the use of taste memory and the distinguishing of similar tastes), or if a substance has been masked; often accompanied by a superhumanly tough tongue, Asepsis and/or Material Intuition; a superhuman sense of taste can sometimes work like a superhuman sense of smell.%r%t4. Superhuman Sight or Supersight - They can see detail from further away than normal humans, and their sight registers speeding objects (bullets, superspeeders, etc.) more easily; they can see in murky water and fog with less strain, and have sight that is less sensitive to intense light than normal humans (prolonged exposure to intense light does less eye damage); they are often also proficient at Speed-Reading and/or Lip-Reading.%r%t5. Superhuman Hearing or Superhearing - This could be used to hear sounds with more clarity and range, and to distinguish subjects? presence by memory of sounds (even with simultaneously-occurring sounds or fast talking), and to detect lies by listening to and analyzing changes in breath, heartbeat, etc.; may be involuntarily sensitive to loud noises (and/or capable of hearing on subsonic/supersonic frequencies).%r%t6. Superhuman Spatial Sense, also called Spatial Sense, Spatial Awareness or Proximity Sense - This can be used to judge distances accurately, tell if an object can fit into a space, discern the speed, velocity and momentum of objects, sense when/where a subject teleports and sense the shape of things in one's proximity (if unable to see); they are also incapable of suffering from vertigo and/or fear of heights.%r%r%tWhile it is common that users of this ability have all their senses beyond those of normal humans, it is possible that the possessor may only have one or two of these senses at a time, and/or may be able to block out certain things to focus in on a certain sensory stimulus (called Sense Discrimination, Sensory Discrimination or Stimulus Discrimination). Although, the user may not even be able to control his senses, so that he is able to see/hear/smell or otherwise sense on a superhuman level all the time.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Superhuman Sight and Telescopic Vision are not the same; Telescopic Vision allows one to see far away as though things are up close (but only with normal visual strength); Superhuman Sight allows one to see a bit farther than normal, but with more range (more detail in normal range, with better peripheral vision) they see color better, they filter fast movement better and their eyes are stronger and more resistant to light damage.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Superhuman Sight does not imply Superhuman Accuracy (neither does a Superhuman Spatial Sense).
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-SPEED Power Info Database=Superhuman Speed or Superspeed is the ability for a person to move faster than a normal human. One with this ability accomplishes it one of two ways, the first of which including superhumanly powerful and flexible legs. The second way includes the mind either exerting a force which propels the body at quicker speeds, or a different psychic force which allows the body's molecules to vibrate at high speeds (this sort of psychic energy also allows Intangibility). Either way, this ability is often accompanied by Super-Reflexes and immunity to high amounts of friction.%r%r%tSuperspeed ranges from the speed of a sports car, to that of a cheetah, to that of a jet, to the speed of light, or the like.
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-STRENGTH Power Info Database=Superhuman Strength or Superstrength is the ability for a person to exert force from the muscles beyond that of a normal human. This can be accomplished by either fortifying the muscles with psychic force (similar to the energy which allows Telekinesis), or simply having denser muscle mass than that of a normal human. The amount of psychic force for the former (and thus, the amount of strength) varies from person to person. The upper levels of this ability are not yet known, but it remains possible that with training this person could lift, pull or push several tons.
&POWER_WEIGHT-SHIFTING Power Info Database=Weight Shifting is the ability to use psionic power to increase or decrease gravity around oneself without any ill effect on the body. An individual with this ability can spontaneously change their weight to essentially become either almost-weightless (floating, walking on water) or extremely heavy and potentially immovable, as well as all areas between these ranges. Sometimes this ability could even be used to change the weight of other things (called Weight Manipulation). This ability is usually accompanied with Superhuman Endurance.
&POWER_ASTRAL-PROJECTION Power Info Database=Astral Projection, also called Soul/Spirit Projection, Ethereal Projection, Astral Travel, Astral/Soul Release, Free Spirit, or Spirit Freedom is the psychic ability to temporarily release the spirit or "soul-self" from the body, allowing it to roam freely, usually via Flight, or enter and exit one's own body at will (travel can take place on either the physical plane or the Astral Plane). The longer one travels, however, the more likely that harm will be inflicted on the body of the user who has left it with no animating consciousness or thought. Though, this can be avoided if the soul-self can keep the body alive while it is absent (called Remote Control).%r%r%tSometimes, instead of normal Astral Projection, the user releases a psionic replicate of one's psyche (so the psyche is supposedly released, but the body isn't left inert). In another version, the user's psyche resembles an animal. And if the user also has an energy-based ability, his astral self may be sheathed in that type of energy (a phoenix shape sheathed in fire, a raven shape sheathed in darkforce, etc.).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Either the psyche and the aura are released together during Astral Projection, or the psyche is released alone; if the aura is released alone, the user dies (because the aura is the animating force, so when the user releases it, the psyche would not even work, thus preventing it from even being able to return the aura; but the aura could return the psyche if the psyche were released).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If the Astral Projection is unintentional (forced, or subconscious), the ability is instead called an Out-of-Body Experience, an OOBE or an OBE. If the Out-of-Body Experience evokes a review of the user's entire life (the user's life flashes before his eyes, an experience called a "Life Review"), the experience is referred to as a Near-Death Experience.
&POWER_AURA-READING Power Info Database=Aura Reading, also called Aural Energy Sense, Aura Sense, Aura Perception, Radiesthesia, Radial Sensitivity/Perception/Sense or Aural Energy Perception is the ability to detect the auras of living things and to read the content of the aura; this ability allows one to discern the level of a subject's emotions (and emotional instability), intentions, if someone is possessed and the presence of empathic links (as well as being able to identify subjects by their auras).
&POWER_CLAIRALIENCE Power Info Database=Clairalience, also called Inodorous Contact, is the ability to sense smells/aromas from the past, the future or a location not relative to the user. If one received a smell, they could divine information about what that substance was, without having to smell something potentially harmful. They could also recognize the location of the smell, and could thus track subjects, as the smell gets stronger. The user may also receive nasal sensations (runny/stuffy nose, sneezing, nosebleed, smelling sudden aromas, etc.) with the presence of psychic energy.
&POWER_CLAIRAUDIENCE Power Info Database=Clairaudience, also called Inaudible Contact, is the ability to mentally pick up sounds from the future, past, or some location not relative to the user, including hearing spirits' voices or supernatural sounds, etc. If one heard a subject, they could divine information about what and where the subject was, and could use this to find subjects as the sounds grew clearer, closer and possibly louder. The user may also receive auditory sensations (increased hearing, itching in the ears, sudden deafness, etc.) with the presence of psychic energy.
&POWER_CLAIRCOGNIZANCE Power Info Database=Claircognizance, also called Indiscernible Contact, is the ability to psychically know information is correct without getting a clairvoyant, clairaudient, clairgustant, clairalient or clairsentient message; it is a feeling of complete correctness and certainty about impersonal information (things not pertaining to living things), like the answers to a test or which wire is the right one to disarm a bomb. The user may also receive psychic sensations (randomly blurting out facts, sudden recollection of useful knowledge, etc.) with the presence of psychic energy.
&POWER_CLAIRGUSTANCE Power Info Database=Clairgustance, also called Insipid Contact, is defined as a form of extra-sensory perception that allegedly allows one to taste a substance from the past, future, or an area not relative to the user (without putting anything in one's mouth). If one tasted a substance, they could divine information about what and where the substance was without having to taste something potentially harmful. The user may also receive oral sensations (dry mouth, watering mouth, hiccups, burping, sudden food cravings, etc.) with the presence of psychic energy.
&POWER_CLAIRSENTIENCE Power Info Database=Clairsentience, also called Intangible Contact, is the ability to perceive the past or future condition of a subject by touching it. One with this ability could even feel auras, psyches, and that would be otherwise intangible, like spirits (even phasers). If one felt a stimulus (even if it were invisible), they could divine information about what the stimulus was, as well as information about the state of the object/subject. The user may also receive tactile sensations (itchy palms, a prickly feeling, heat/cold, etc.) with the presence of psychic energy.
&POWER_CLAIRVOYANCE Power Info Database=Clairvoyance, also called Invisible Contact, is a form of extra-sensory perception wherein a person acquires knowledge of all sorts by visual means. This can include sight of that which is normally invisible, the past, the future, or simply from a location not relative to the user. If one saw a distant location (or came into contact with a map), they could also know where the location is, allowing them to find others. The user may also receive visual sensations (itchy/watery eyes, rapid blinking for no reason, etc.) with presence of psychic energy.
&POWER_DISRUPTION Power Info Database=Disruption, known as Interference (or Disorientation when used on living subjects), is the ability to project a psychic aura (or an EMP) from one's body that disrupts electrical/electromagnetic fields. One with this ability disrupts electronics, radio transmissions, cell phone connections, etc. It could even be used to disrupt the electricity innately found in the human body, or the brain's function centers, including the center for balance (thus effectively inducing vertigo and dizziness) or the center for memory (thus allowing the user to induce blackouts and fainting, but not to erase memory). This ability can usually be suppressed or activated by the user's will.
&POWER_EMPATHY Power Info Database=Empathy or Emotional Perception is the mental ability to feel or experience the emotions of others. One could use this to figure out how someone is feeling, to understand why someone does what they do, etc. This can be used to determine the presence of hidden subjects as well, because the user can sense the presence of emotions, and trace them back to their source (this is called Empathic Tracking). However, sometimes the user can also (or only) project his emotions onto others, to get them to feel as he feels (this is called Empathic Projection). In some cases, the user might even be capable of literally seeing people's hopes, fears, desires and thoughts by connecting with them on a profound level.
&POWER_ENTOMOPATHY Power Info Database=Entomopathy, also called Insect Omnilingualism, Insect Telepathy, Insect Empathy, Insect Control/Domination or Insect Communication is the superhuman ability to mentally communicate with, and eventually command, insects. Sometimes this ability extends to the entire insect kingdom, but other times, the ability may be more specific, like the following:%r%r%t* Apian/Vespine Omnilingualism, also called Apian/Vespine Communication or Apian/Vespine Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command, bees and/or wasps, from honey bees to killer bees, hornets and yellow jackets. This is limited to bees and wasps.%r%t* Arachnid Omnilingualism, also called Arachnid Communication/Domination or Arachnopathy is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command arachnids, from various smaller spider species to tarantulas, scorpions, mites and ticks. This is limited to arachnids.%r%t* Formic Omnilingualism, also called Formic Communication/Domination or Myrmecopathy is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command the various ant species, from sugar ants to fire ants, bomber ants, carpenter ants, leaf-cutter ants and the like. This is limited to ant species.%r%t* Insect Vermin Omnilingualism, also called Insect Vermin Communication/Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command (insect) vermin, from fleas, lice, ticks and worms to flies, roaches, maggots, parasites and the like. This is limited to (insect) creepy crawlies.%r%t* Lepidopteran Omnilingualism, also called Lepidopteran Communication/Domination or Lepidopteropathy is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command butterfly and moth species (and their larval stages, caterpillars). This is limited to lepidopteran species.%r%t* Muscid Omnilingualism, also called Muscid Communication/Domination, Muscopathy or Myiopathy is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command muscids, from houseflies to fruit flies, horseflies, botflies, maggots (fly larvae), mosquitoes and their larvae. This is limited to muscids.%r%t* Orthopteran Omnilingualism, also called Orthopteran Communication/Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command orthopterans, from cockroaches to katydids to locusts, and cricket and grasshopper species (and their nymphs). This is limited to orthopterans.%r%r%tOne with this ability sends a telepathic or empathic message to the desired insects and rather than the insect simply understanding human language, the mind of the user empathically translates it into mental signals that the insect or insects can understand. This can allow communication with any insect and may even allow psionic control over the insect kingdom, including their metabolism, their behaviors and their breeding patterns, or to understand what they are thinking as well (even sharing senses, etc.).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] These abilities are called types of Omnilingualism because they allow the user to communicate with insects by any means of communication required for that insect (telepathically, empathically, vocally, with gestures, chemically, etc.). The vocal/sonic mode of communication employs a bit of the ability Vocal Mimicry.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Calling this ability Insectokinesis or Entomokinesis is inaccurate. The suffix "kinesis" implies psychic manipulation, and even though the user can control, to an extent, the behaviors of bugs, they can also perceive bugs' thoughts/emotions, and they cannot levitate or move bugs around like Telekinesis.
&POWER_HYPNOKINESIS Power Info Database=Hypnokinesis also known as Sleep Manipulation is the ability to manipulate sleep patterns. This can be used to induce instantaneous sleep on biotic subjects, or to induce perpetual insomnia (which is bad for your health). One with this ability can even remove the need to sleep from any biotic subject, or make them dreadfully tired all the time. One can also cause the subject to sleep forever in a comatose like state. One can even determine how deep a sleep or how long a sleep a person or people has.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] The ability may also be used in a useful way to increase wakefulness in others, although this may only be mental wakefulness, leaving the body tired.
&POWER_INUNDATION Power Info Database=Inundation is the psychic ability to overwhelm the senses, by one of a few means. The user may cause subjects to lose conscious control over their senses. Or the user may heighten a subject's sensory awareness, forcing the subject to simultaneously perceive all sensory stimuli in proximity. At the higher levels, the user could even overload the foe's senses by making him simultaneously recall every past stimulus they have experienced, until they go numb, fall unconscious or go into shock from the barrage of sensory data. This ability may be accompanied by Protected Senses.%r%r%tThis ability may also (or only) cause thoughts, ideas and memories to overrun the foe's mind (called Mental Inundation, Mental Bombardment or Mental Barrage) or cause emotions to overrun the foe's mind (called Emotional Inundation, Emotional Bombardment or Empathic Barrage).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If the effect of normal Inundation is accomplished by visible use of psionic energy, it may also be referred to as Psionic Overload; if Mental Inundation is accomplished by visible use of psionic energy, it may also be referred to as Psionic Mind Overload; if Emotional Inundation is accomplished by visible use of psionic energy, it may also be referred to as Psionic Emotion Overload%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If normal Inundation is combined with Mental Inundation and/or Emotional Inundation, it is simply referred to as Inundation; if Mental Inundation is only combined with Emotional Inundation, it is simply referred to as Mental Inundation (as it takes no effect on the physical senses).
&POWER_JUXTAPOSITION Power Info Database=Juxtaposition or Antithetic Adaptation is the ability to psychically match the abilities and benefits of any desired subject so they cannot overtake/surpass the user. This can be used when pursued (the user will always remain the same distance from the pursuer, and thus never be caught), or to keep competitions at a stalemate (so, at least the user won't lose -- he just won't win, either). Instead of developing an opposite ability to one's opponent, like normal Reactive Adaptation, one would gain the foe's same powers and benefits, and thus resistance to one's opponents.
&POWER_MEMORY-ERASURE Power Info Database=*|Memory Erasure, also known as Memory Wiping or Mind Wiping is the psychic ability to mentally delete the memories of others through a touch, a kiss or mental contact. When used to its max potential, this ability has no limit; the user could completely remove the short-term and long-term memories of others, leaving the victim in a comatose state, or preventing the use of superhuman abilities. This ability may be accompanied by Mnemonic Recollection (allowing the user to restore the memories he erases), although Rapid Regeneration or Healing work to do that as well.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If the user has or gains this faculty, as well as the ability Mnemonic Recollection and the ability to implant/distort memories, the user's ability as developed into Mnemokinesis.
&POWER_NECROKINESIS Power Info Database=Necrokinesis is the mental ability to manipulate dead subjects. People with this ability are few and far between, and rarely aware of their power until it manifests itself by killing someone in their proximity, or temporarily raises the deceased from their graves. These people have the Death Touch (also called Grim Reaping), capable of killing anything they touch, or the Death Stare, capable of inducing instantaneous fatality by halting all body processes of another after psionically making contact.
&POWER_NONEXISTENCE Power Info Database=!|Nonexistence, also called Physics Defiance or the "X-Factor" is the temporal ability to erase oneself from the space-time continuum, and thus not be bound to the "boundaries" of what is physically possible in the material realm. It would allow defiance of space-time (i.e. Teleportation and Time Defiance, not Chronokinesis or Spatial Distortion), Null Causality, Immutability and Life Support (not abilities like Summoning or Reality Bending). Not to mention, all memory of the user will be erased (they will not appear in pictures or prophecies, and there will be no evidence of their existence other than their presence), until they phase back into space-time.%r%r%tOne with this ability loses all bodily traces like fingerprints and scent, cannot be detected by recording devices of any kind, cannot be tracked by any tracking ability and cannot be affected by Decrescence or similar abilities (in addition, the user instantly leaves a subject's memory when he leaves their presence, resulting in the impression that the person truly does not exist).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Only people with Reality Perception and Chronopathy (and Omniscience) can tell when this ability is in effect (and won't lose memory of the user when it is in use).
&POWER_ONEIROKINESIS Power Info Database=Oneirokinesis is the ability to mentally alter dreams. With this ability, one can allow himself to perceive the future, or give ones' subjects extremely good dreams, or turn wonderful dreams into horrid nightmares. Some with this ability can even project their consciousness into the dreams of others and consciously perceive or control their own dreams. One with this ability may even be able to suppress lucid dreams or disrupt REM sleep, thus preventing foes from escaping their own minds. This ability may be accompanied by the ability to induce or manipulate sleep.
&POWER_PANMNESIA Power Info Database=Panmnesia, also known as Hypermnesia or Total Recall is the psychic ability to easily remember and quickly recall everything that one has ever experienced or learned in one's lifetime. One with this ability usually needs only to read, hear or see something once and they will never forget it. They continually learn for the rest of their lives and their brain will simply compress neural synapses to contain it all, allowing memory of every event, experience or bit of knowledge from birth to the present. In addition, this ability may even be accompanied by the inability to have one's memory altered, and immunity to the memory-numbing effects of drugs (a faculty called Anamnesis).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This ability may be more of a curse than a gift if the user has encountered many traumatic events in one's lifetime; this is especially true if affected by one with Mnemokinesis or Mnemonic Recollection.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This ability implies that the user can remember everything, but every moment of their lives is not constantly in their conscious mind; they must consciously make an effort to recall desired information and memories (for example, if they wanted to think back to remember an important piece of information, their contemplation on the topic would activate the part of their brain that stored that piece of information).
&POWER_PATHOKINESIS Power Info Database=Pathokinesis is the ability to psychically manipulate the emotions of others. With a thought, one could make a brave man panic, or cause people to be happy, angry, sad or in love with anyone they desire. One with this ability could cause emotions, negate emotions, or even overload the emotions of other (causing mental breakdowns), among numerous other effects. This ability could be used to cheer up friends, afflict enemies, or the like. This ability is often accompanied by or results in Empathy (sensing emotions) or Apathy (having no emotion).
&POWER_POSTCOGNITION Power Info Database=Postcognition, also called Retrocognition, Past Sight or Retrospect is the psychic ability to visually perceive information about past events after they happen, without any guessing based on deductive reasoning and current knowledge. This ability occurs as a brief flash of the scene, or it may last longer. Sometimes, however, it can even be activated at will within whichever interval the user desires (the last six hours, yesterday) at which time it becomes Selective Postcognition, Selective Retrocognition or Selective Retrospect.
&POWER_PRECOGNITION Power Info Database=Precognition, also called Future Sight or Foresight is the psychic ability to visually perceive information about future events before they happen, as opposed to guessing based on deductive reasoning and current knowledge. It can come as a brief flash of the scene, or it may last longer. Sometimes, however, it can even be activated at will, within whichever time intervals the user desires ("the next six hours", "tomorrow", etc.), at which point the power becomes Selective Precognition or Selective Foresight.%r%r%tThis ability is occasionally expressed through visual art, though the visions are more common.
&POWER_PSYCHIC-PERSUASION Power Info Database=Psychic Persuasion, also known as Persuasion, Suggestion or Mind Control is the superhuman ability to psychically negate the inhibitions of others, placing them in an extreme state of suggestibility, either by visual, mental or vocal contact. When the user suggests something to the person on which the power is being used, they will feel a strange compulsion to do whatever they are told to do (even killing themselves or others). Sometimes the compulsion could even work on a subsonic, supersonic or subliminal level so that the subject does not even have to consciously hear the orders directed at them in order to be compelled to carry them out.
&POWER_PSYCHOMETRY Power Info Database=Psychometric is the ability to mentally divine information about an object or living subject, simply by coming into close contact with it or something associated with said object or subject. Some with the ability can even act as mediums for residual energies and, as such, can experience talents or memories temporarily by touching an object previously owned by someone else. Or they may be able to tell the past or future of a subject by touching an object owned by or associated with the subject.%r%r%tSometimes, Psychometry may even be projected. First, the user must touch an object. Then the desired target touches the object, and the object pulls a psychic imprint off of the person or animal. The user then touches the object, and acquires all the information they desire (called Information Hunting, Knowledge Hunting or Psychic Gleaning).
&POWER_REALITY-BENDING Power Info Database=!|Reality Bending, also known as Reality Warping, (Situation) Realization, Canonization or (more colloquially) Projection, is the immensely powerful superhuman psychic ability to literally alter what is currently true about reality, even to the point of inducing normally-impossible events. This can be accomplished in a number of ways. These include:%r%r%t* Vocifery, also known as Command is the amazing superhuman ability to speak nearly anything into existence. When using this ability, almost any event or being the user of this ability speaks will come true instantly. The only hitch is that no vocifer, except God, can ever speak instantaneous death or doom on any enemy or subject, thanks to the words of the first vocifer.%r%t* Mentifery, known also as Imagining, is the marvelous superhuman ability to think nearly anything into existence. Nearly any desire or wish of the user can be fulfilled at the simple thought of it, and can be changed, rearranged or deleted by the user's imagination.%r%t* Pathifery, known also as Wishing, is the powerful superhuman ability to "feel" nearly any occurrence into existence. One with this ability can induce occurrences and abilities based on their feelings, and simply wanting something to happen badly enough.%r%t* Deus Ex Machina, also called Wish Granting or another version of Wishing employs the services of reality-bending entities (perhaps a genie, fairies, etc.), which are bound to the user's will (instead of the user himself having the capability to bend reality); there may any number of these beings (usually only one or two), but they bend to the user's will entirely, by an oath or a debt, to give the user whatever they please (within their power).%r%t* Narration, also called Storytelling or Fantastic Realization is an advanced form of Narrative Summoning, which allows one to type or write entire situations into existence. With this ability, the user literally becomes the narrator of reality and his power over such will remain until he is either restrained from his writing materials, he is knocked unconscious (or killed), or the story ends.%r%t* Spheres of Influence, also called Strange Bubbles are spheres or bubbles of psionic energy, which are highly malleable to the effects of Vocifery, Mentifery or Pathifery; used to bend reality within a limited space (usually a literal sphere) for various effects; with enough willpower, one could (somewhat) change the size of the sphere of influence, but by how much varies with the strength of the user's mind.%r%t* A Plane of Influence is a virtual, map-like projection of a designated area, made of psionic energy (highly malleable to the effects of Vocifery, Mentifery or Pathifery); reality is psychically manipulated in proportion to the manipulation or changing of this "map" (even manipulation on a worldwide or universal scale, if powers develop) unless the object or subject on that map is immutable.%r%t* Reality Flux is the ability to psychically cause reality to change randomly after only activating the power once per use. After a certain (often random) interval of time, reality would simply change to cause some new occurrence (normally, but not always, in favor of the user), until the power is deactivated.%r%t* Reality Anchoring is the ability to prevent reality from being bent or defied within a certain radius (this effect prevents Reality Bending, as well as Magic, Illusion, Absurdity, Shapeshifting, etc.). While this ability can prevent reality from being changed, it can rarely undo the changes. This may be accompanied by Immutability.%r%r%tOf these ways (except the last named faculty) one could change the color of a subject, change the structure of a subject, break a natural law or, as the name implies, bend reality, changing the rules of the world into their own (if their powers developed enough). The limit to these powers is usually the user?s imagination or the fact that God can stop reality from changing if He wishes. If one possesses more than one (or all) of these faculties, then it is simply called Reality Bending (there is no need to be specific).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] The Deus Ex Machina faculty of Reality Bending is only referred to as Wish Granting if the ability is being listed under the powers of the wish-granting entity; otherwise, the ability is called Deus Ex Machina or Wishing. If this ability is listed under the abilities of a wish-granting entity, it implies that the entity can only bend reality when his master desires.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Reality Bending and Omnipotence are NOT the same; Reality Bending is much weaker. Reality Bending cannot be used to tap into Omniscience or Omnipresence, nor can it create or destroy realities. It also cannot be used to become a deity or to kill a deity (while Omnipotence automatically makes the user a deity; that ability can only belong to a deity). Also, Omnipotence can even affect those with Invulnerability, Immutability and Reality Perception (and it can override the Reality Anchoring ability).
&POWER_REMOTE-VIEWING Power Info Database=Remote Viewing is a procedure to allegedly perform near-complete ESP under controlled conditions. Somewhat similar to Astral Projection, the phenomenon involves total (and willful) projection of consciousness (the aura and/or the psyche) to remote locations. One with this ability can use it to sometimes sense (by the five senses, not psychically) the targets within that location, and from that, divine the location of those targets (how far away they are, in which cardinal direction, etc.)
&POWER_SUPERHUMAN-INTELLIGENCE Power Info Database=Superhuman Intelligence, also called Superhuman Intellect, Superintelligence or Super-Intellect is the ability for the mind to learn and retain knowledge on a better level than that of a normal human. This is accomplished by the psychic ability to decipher knowledge that lies within a subject by studying it, allowing one superhuman learning speed and comprehension, accompanied by superhuman leaps of logic and better-than-normal (but not necessarily superhuman) memory. The longer the user studies, the smarter he gets (he may even review the same material for a short time and still learn new things).
&POWER_TECHNOPATHY Power Info Database=Technopathy or Cyberpathy is the psychic ability to sense and control the functions of electronic devices requiring only physical or mental contact with the device, to potentially override security codes and infiltrate an installation with ease by manipulating any electronic device, or sense the presence of electronics (even artificial intelligence). Other forms of this ability may allow any of the following:%r%r%t* Cybernetic Travel, also called Cybernetic/Digital Transmission, Cybernetic/Digital Conversion or Digitization/Digitalization -- projection of consciousness into electronic devices (or psionic conversion of physical matter to/from digital data); may also include free-course interaction with, and manipulation of programs, travel in "cyberspace" and transport between any two digitally-connected electrical conduits.%r%t* Digital Mind, also called Digital Mimicry or Mechanical Mind -- psychic mimicry of the electronic "thought" processes of a computer hard drive, allowing memory and data gathering, analysis and processing on par with or beyond a supercomputer; this ability can also be used to read bar codes/binary code like an actual language, and to "borrow the senses" of machines that are designed to detect things (radar, GPS tracking, etc.). In addition, their mind may be blocked from mental access by a password.%r%t* Technoforming, also called Technointegration, Technohybridization or Technomerging/Cybermerging -- the harmless merge of one's biology with a technological device, taking the best attributes of both the machine and the user to create an effective "cyborg-esque" gestalt; may include the use of nanobots which quickly reform and heal any wounds, injuries or disabilities the user has, or the like.%r%t* Technokinesis, also called Cyberkinesis or Technological/Digital/Cybernetic/Technology Manipulation -- the mental manipulation of electronic/digital technology, so they can be controlled without need for physical contact, and can be made to function/malfunction according to the user's will, even being moved and controlled like puppets; may include Mechanokinesis or Mechanical Manipulation, the ability to psychically control motor-run machines by empathically connecting to electrical wiring within cars, kitchen appliances and the like.%r%r%tAn advanced technopath may be able to control robots, cyborgs and androids as though one had the power Psychic Persuasion/Mind Control, or get machines to work when power sources have been cut off, or get access to numerous illegal codes, or pull up files which were supposedly deleted off one's computer years ago, and permanently delete or lock away files one wished to keep top secret (in a location in cyberspace to which only the user would have access), among numerous other things.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Telepaths can often read the minds of those with Digital Mind if they find out the user's password (unless the user is perspicuous), but people with normal Technopathy can communicate with them mentally as well, because the minds of those with Digital Mind work similar to electronic devices.
&POWER_TELEPATHY Power Info Database=Telepathy, also called Mind Reading, Mind-Reading or Thought Perception/Projection is the ability to psychically communicate information from one mind to another. This can range from the traditional reading of minds to implanting thoughts into others' minds. This could also allow the user to project telepathic illusions (tampering with the senses, and the like), or send thought-wave "static" into the minds of those who try to invade his mind. This ability can even be used to tap into the recesses of the mind to bring forth repressed memories or forgotten information (even latent abilities) and the like.
&POWER_ZOOPATHY Power Info Database=Zoopathy, also called Animal Omnilingualism, Animal Telepathy, Animal Empathy, Animal Control/Domination or Animal Communication is the superhuman ability to mentally communicate with, and eventually command animals. Sometimes this ability extends to the entire animal kingdom, but other times, the ability may be more specific, like the following:%r%r%t* Amphibian Omnilingualism, also called Amphibian Communication/Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command amphibians, from small tadpoles and frogs to toads, newts, salamanders (and their aquatic larval stages) and the like. This is limited to amphibians.%r%t* Avian Omnilingualism, also called Avian Communication/Domination or Ornithopathy is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command birds, from small birds like sparrows and pigeons to ostriches and birds of prey like hawks and eagles. This is limited to birds.%r%t* Canine Omnilingualism, also called Canine Communication/Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command animals of the canine species, from domestic dogs (Dalmatians, Great Danes, etc.) to wild dogs like dingoes, wolves and foxes. This is limited to canines.%r%t* Feline Omnilingualism, also called Feline Communication/Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command animals of the feline species, from domestic cats to feral cats and big cats like lions, panthers, leopards, jaguars and cheetahs. This is limited to felines.%r%t* Ichthyic Omnilingualism, also called Ichthyic Communication/Domination or Ichthyopathy is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command marine species, from fish, to sharks, cephalopods, mollusks, crustaceans, dolphins, whales, otters, etc. This is limited to marine species.%r%t* Reptilian Omnilingualism, also called Reptilian Communication/Domination, Herpetopathy or Fissilingualism is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command reptiles, from lizards to turtles, snakes, alligators and dinosaurs (if he travels back in time). This is limited to reptiles.%r%t* Vermin Omnilingualism, also called Vermin Communication/Domination is the superhuman ability to communicate with, and eventually command vermin, from fleas, ticks, lice, flies and roaches, to bats, raccoons and rodents (and any animal infested with parasites). This is limited to creepy crawlies.%r%r%tOne with this ability sends a telepathic or empathic message to the desired animals and rather than the animal simply understanding human language, the mind of the user empathically translates it into mental signals that animals can understand. This allows communication with any animal and may even allow psionic control over the animal kingdom, including metabolism, behaviors and breeding patterns, or to understand what they are thinking as well (even sharing senses, etc.).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] These abilities are called types of Omnilingualism because they allow the user to communicate with animals by any means of communication required for that animal (telepathically, empathically, vocally, with gestures, chemically, etc.). The vocal/sonic mode of communication employs a bit of the ability Vocal Mimicry.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Calling this ability Faunokinesis or Zookinesis is inaccurate. The suffix "kinesis" implies psychic manipulation, and even though the user can control, to an extent, the behaviors of animals, they can also perceive animals' thoughts/emotions, and they cannot levitate or move animals around like Telekinesis%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] Some may have the ability to only command animals, or to only communicate with animals.
&POWER_ADAPTATION Power Info Database=Adaptation, also called Environmental Adaptation or Ecological Adaptation is the presence of numerous superhuman physical and mental features that work together, allowing one to survive in a certain environment. Types of Adaptation may include the following:%r%r%t* Aerial Adaptation or Flight Adaptation allows the user to withstand extremely high/low wind pressure (one isn't disoriented or deprived of normal breathing capacity by it), and high wind friction; this is often accompanied by innate immunity to vertigo and/or fear of heights; this is innate for superhumans capable of Flight (and counted along with Flight as being one superhuman ability).%r%t* Aquatic Adaptation, also called Undersea Adaptation, Underwater Adaptation or Bathyal Adaptation allows the user to breathe water in lieu of, or along with, a gaseous breathing medium (Underwater Breathing, also called Water Breathing, Waterbreathing, Water-breathing or Hydropnea), to swim very well (usually at high speeds) and to easily endure high water pressure and extreme water temperatures.%r%t* Arctic Adaptation, also called Tundra Adaptation or Cold Adaptation allows the user to live in conditions where the climate usually consists of cold weather, as they possess adjusted breathing capacity, as well as high tolerance (even immunity) to the cold. This ability may also imply the presence of Fur, Claws, thick skin, blubber and/or sight adapted to see with more ease in snowstorms.%r%t* Desert Adaptation allows the user to survive in desolate desert conditions, with the capability to go longer without water, and to use it more efficiently (including less need for water, and Dormition in times when water is scarce), skin or body systems which better deal with heat (reducing its intake, tolerating it, or getting rid of it), and perhaps coloration close to the color of the desert environment.%r%t* Montane Adaptation or Mountain Adaptation allows the user to live in very high-up conditions where the air is thin, as they possess adjusted breathing capacity, high air-pressure tolerance, a high cold tolerance and an immunity to the effects of vertigo or similar disorientation. This ability may imply the presence of Fur, Claws, thick skin, blubber and/or specially-adapted lungs.%r%t* Nocturnal Adaptation or Dark Adaptation allows the user to better operate in dark environments (especially nighttime conditions), with a circadian cycle programmed for nighttime activity, heightened senses to perceive things one cannot directly see (like Night Vision, Superhuman Senses, Spatial Sense, and/or Echolocation; this may also imply sensitivity to intense light), and perhaps darker coloration.%r%t* Terrene Adaptation or Underground Adaptation allows the user to live in stuffy, low-light terrene conditions like caves/tunnels with vision, endurance and breathing adapted for such (perhaps also adapted for intense heat, if adapted for areas closer to the earth's core). This ability may imply the presence of Claws, thick skin, specially-adapted lungs and/or perhaps Night Vision.%r%t* Vacuum Adaptation or Space Adaptation allows the user to survive in space unaided, to withstand atmospheres (the friction, intense heat and any poisonous chemical elements) and cosmic radiation, and to maneuver more easily in strange gravity (perhaps even that of a black hole), and to perhaps propel oneself into space. This ability may also imply the capability to perform anaerobic respiration.%r%r%tThe user of these adaptations would still have a human body, except with perhaps a few superhuman anatomical features. One with this ability rarely has adaptations for multiple different environments.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] The terms Environmental Adaptation or Ecological Adaptation do not imply the user is capable of adapting to one's environments; it implies the user is already gifted with a physiology suited for that environment (if the user willfully adapts to their environment, it is instead called Reactive Adaptation).
&POWER_DEGENERATION Power Info Database=Degeneration, also known as Anti-Healing or the Anti-Healing Effect is the ability to psychically deteriorate others, by reversing the healing process. Old wounds are re-opened, so all old physical afflictions return, and if the user uses it for long enough, the subject will be severely maimed. In addition, due to the nature of this ability, one may also hinder or reverse abilities such as Healing and Rapid Regeneration. If the subject has been harmed enough in the past, this ability may be used to kill a subject. This ability may be accompanied by Excruciation.
&POWER_EIDETIC-MEMORY Power Info Database=Eidetic Memory, also called Visual Memory or Photographic Memory is a version of Panmnesia, in which the user doesn't have total recall, but can remember visual information much more readily than a normal human. Those with eidetic memories usually only need to read or see something once and they will never forget it again (they may have a hard time recalling it, though, after learning numerous other things). Sometimes, if one with this ability tries to retain too much knowledge at one time, it can cause fatal mental damage.
&POWER_FERAL-MIND Power Info Database=Feral Mind, also known as Berserk, Berserker Rage or Rage is the ability to drive oneself temporarily "insane", to increase one's strength, speed, agility, endurance and awareness. One with this ability may accomplish it any number of ways besides the usual flying into a rage, including:%r%r%t1. Frenzy - upon reading or invading the user's mind, telepaths, empaths, possessors and other mind-intruding psychics become "infected" with the same frenzy instead of being able to calm the user down or otherwise dominate the subject.%r%t2. Lunacy or Lunar Mind - employing the forces of the moon to revert the mind into a primal state which is prone to violence and survival instinct; lunar energy can also be stored in this manner and saved for a later Feral Mind (perhaps needed when the moon is not present).%r%t3. Swan Song or Dying Defense - giving a cry (not a literal song) which revert the mind into a primal state which is prone to violence and survival instinct; usually only activated when the body is in mortal danger, and may be used to boost others' morale as well.%r%t4. Trigger or Redintegration - employing the intentional/unintentional reversion of the mind into a primal state by subjecting the user to circumstances which triggered their first Feral Mind; may be a smell, a sound, a picture or nearly any other stimulus.%r%r%tThis ability can reverse users' minds into a primal state, where the instinct is "survive at all costs" and it is only induced by feelings of anger or fear. It can allow one a boost of adrenaline that induces above-average strength, speed and the ability to think outside the box, even if harm comes to allies. The user of the ability, however, rarely remembers what happened after the adrenaline rush wears off.
&POWER_GENETIC-ABSORPTION Power Info Database=Genetic Absorption is the ability to absorb the DNA of any living thing they come in physical, skin-to-skin contact with. The user can then cause features or adaptations from that species to manifest themselves in their own genes. It is unknown whether or not this ability is limited to features, or if the user can completely transform into the life-form they touched. Such extension may be possible through practice. This ability is much like Molecular Absorption, and is possibly related, as a person with this ability can absorb the Anomalistic Abilities of other people.
&POWER_INTUITIVE-APTITUDE Power Info Database=*|Intuitive Aptitude, also known as Psychic Aptitude is the ability to psychically see and/or understand the anatomy of any system and how it works. One with this ability could even detect what each part does in a machine, so that they can almost-instinctively figure out how to work any device. This ability even allows the possessor to understand how to repair his own mind, so they are capable of acquiring the abilities of others and resisting mental instability, because they can understand how their own minds works as well as the minds of others.
&POWER_LANCINATION Power Info Database=Lancination, also known as Laceration, Cutting or Slicing is a variation of Affliction in which the user can only induce cuts, lacerations and stab wounds. One with this ability can cause the same sensation and effect as if a subject were being jabbed or sliced by a blade of nearly any sort. This ability can also be used to loosen weak bonds, draw blood or the like. However, this ability has some of the same shortcomings as the use of blades (the right blade must be used to cut the right size or density of material). This ability may be accompanied by Excruciation.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] This effect can be mimicked with Telekinesis or Psychic/Psionic Talons, but the user cannot change the cutting intensity with those abilities like he can with true Lancination.
&POWER_MECHANICAL-ENERGY-PERCEPTION Power Info Database=Mechanical Energy Perception, also called Potential-Kinetic Energy Perception, Potential/Kinetic Perception or Potential/Kinetic Energy Sense is the ability to perceive mechanical (potential and kinetic) energy, which appear to the user's vision in contrasting colors (if the user perceives it visually). This can be used to see targets' potential/kinetic energy (sometimes even a target's projected path of motion).
&POWER_OMNILINGUALISM Power Info Database=Omnilingualism, also called Lingual Intuition, Language Interpretation, Interpretation or Ciphering/Deciphering is the ability to innately speak, write, understand and communicate any language including computer codes, languages he?s never heard before, sign language (even lip-reading), illegible words, and backwards speech and writing. A superhuman with this ability could even communicate with animals or read body language. This ability works by either or both of two psionic faculties:%r%r%t* Receptive Omnilingualism -- the psionic translation of any written language into the user's own native tongue, or through subliminal intuition of what by physical communication means. This ability may even employ telepathic faculty, where the psychic energy is read (by hearing or sight) to understand what the message is meant to convey.%r%t* Projective Omnilingualism -- the psionic translation of one's native tongue or telepathic/subliminal broadcast of one's communication intentions to the minds of others, so that one can speak one's own language and be understood by people who normally wouldn't understand the speaker. The user of this ability may not be able to understand others, but only cause them to understand him.%r%r%tUsually, though, the ability is reciprocal, so that the user and the subjects can understand and communicate with one another efficiently.
&POWER_PARALYSIS Power Info Database=Paralysis, also called Paralysis Inducing or Paralyzing is the ability to interrupt or "turn off" the nervous system in living subjects, via mental contact, or the like. As a result, the user negates all sensation and disallows motion entirely (even reflexes). If the subject is in motion, it keeps going until it stops; if it is not moving, it will be unable to start moving. However, as the user's control of this ability develops, the user may be able to limit paralysis to certain extremities, such as legs or arms (perhaps the even the heart or the like, at the higher bands).%r%r%tSometimes, instead of actually paralyzing foes, the user may use a faculty of this ability which simply psychically (non-verbally) compels non-perspicuous foes not to move, even if in danger or struck by a blow (called Stillness Inducing or the Sitting-Duck Effect).
&POWER_PHONETIC-MEMORY Power Info Database=Phonetic Memory, also called Auditory Memory or Phonographic Memory is a version of Panmnesia, in which the user doesn't have total recall, but can remember auditory information much more readily than a normal human. Those with phonetic memories usually only hear or listen to something once and they will never forget it again (they may have a hard time recalling it, though, after learning numerous other things). Sometimes, if one with this ability tries to retain too much knowledge at one time, it can cause fatal mental damage.
&POWER_POSSESSION Power Info Database=Possession or Domination is the ability to psychically take over the body, mind or spirit of a living entity, or the structure of an object, either by force or willingly by the host (or sometimes a living subject may be entirely unaware). One with this ability may be able to do any of the following faculties:%r%r%t* Puppetry, also called another version of Mirroring, Psychic Control, Psychic/Psionic Puppetry or (more colloquially) Psychic/Psionic Puppet Strings - the ability to create a psychic/psionic link between the user?s motion and living subjects' motion. The subjects can still resist, but the user controls the subjects' bodies (and power use, if the subject has powers) as though they weren't resisting, moving their limbs by making hand gestures similar to controlling a puppet (hence the ability's name). Rarely, the subject can even be manipulated as though by Telekinesis (slung around, levitated, etc.).%r%t* Body/Bodily Possession or Physical Possession - the ability for one's body to literally "phase into" the body of another living being (or simply to psychically take control over that being's movements) without mental domination. One with this ability almost entirely overrides the host's conscious control of motion and can use this body to gain access to new skills and abilities for his own personal gain.%r%t* Mind/Mental Possession or Psychic Possession/Domination - the ability for one's consciousness to enter the mind of another living being, thus mentally dominating that being's thoughts, memories and mental faculties. One with this ability almost entirely overrides the host's consciousness and can use this body to gain access to new knowledge, skills and abilities for his own personal gain. This version of possession leaves the user's body inert and open to harm.%r%t* Spirit/Spiritual Possession or Astral Possession - the ability for one to dominate the soul of another living being, thus taking control over that being's soul, while also dominating his mind and body in the process. One with this ability almost entirely overrides the host's spirit (thus the mind and body) and can use this body to gain access to new knowledge, skills and abilities for his own personal gain, as well as sometimes bestowing the host with supernatural capability. This version of possession leaves the user's body inert and open to harm.%r%t* Object Possession - the ability for one's consciousness or physical body to enter into an inanimate object. This ability could allow possession of electronics (to control electronic functions like a technopath) or normal inanimate objects (like an animator, except using one's own mind/body as the animating energy). The user still perceives their environment as though they were in a normal body.%r%r%tPossession can be done on multiple subjects/objects at a time, but this requires division of attention, and so usually only the strongest minds are successful with such faculty; numerous types of Possession are hard to do simultaneously. Another faculty of Possession is Power Possession or Power Domination in which one can control when the abilities of another superhuman will work, for how long and with how much intensity. Other forms of Possession are possible.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] When the user is capable of performing Bodily, Mental and Spiritual Possession, the user is just listed as having the power of Possession (not to mention, just the term Possession or just the term Domination can be used interchangeably with either of the three).
&POWER_PROPHECY Power Info Database=Prophecy, like Precognition, is the superhuman ability to see into the future. However, this superhuman ability is the more paranormal or divine version. It is, first, always a vision of a definite future, not just a possible future that can be avoided; however, it is also accompanied by the supernatural compulsion to tell the prophecy to the person for whom it is designated (or the compulsion to adhere to the vision, if it is for the user). One with this ability also has the compulsion to try to stop bad visions and fulfill good visions.
&POWER_PSYCHE-ABSORPTION Power Info Database=*|Psyche Absorption is the ability to psychically steal the psyches which radiate from all living beings. One with this ability could touch a subject and relieve them of their psyche simply by force of will. This ability often effectively leaves the subject in a comatose, vegetable state, as the psyche is the emanation of intelligence and thought of the subject whose psyche they have taken (and if you take their thoughts, you might also take on their persona, and sometimes take on their abilities).%r%r%tEither form of Soul Absorption is useful to take on others' thoughts/memories, or just to increase the strength of one's own aura/psyche (this allows the user to take on properties of the aura or psyche they steal, so one can appear as though they have a good/bad aura, or a psyche indicating high intelligence, when, in fact, they don't). The aura/psyche can often be returned (after a while); but if the absorption is repeated or prolonged, this may permanently relieve the subject of his aura/psyche (killing the subject).
&POWER_REACTIVE-ADAPTATION Power Info Database=Reactive Adaptation, also called Reactive Evolution is the ability to often-physically adapt one's body to any environment or situation to which the user is introduced. This is primarily a form of automatic shapeshifting of one's physical features; however, it can also include other faculties:%r%r%t* Dermal Adaptation also called Skin Adaptation or Dermal Adapt - ability to adapt to environments by changing one's skin (instead of the entire body) to suit it; one with this ability can grow scales, excess hair, even skin similar to stone or armor. The user of this ability will not acquire new abilities unless those abilities go with the condition, color or texture of their skin.%r%t* Mental Adaptation, also known as Knowledge Adaptation, Answer Adaptation, Adaptive Intelligence, Automatic Answering or Mental Adapt - ability to either adapt one's IQ temporarily to understand complex systems, or to automatically blurt out the answer to questions (asked or posed by others) without actually knowing or retaining the answer that one gives out.%r%t* Emotional Adaptation, also known as Empathic Adaptation or Emotional Adapt - ability to gain abilities or adaptations based on one's emotions or to adapt based on the emotions of others; this ability could lead to the use of nearly any superhuman ability short of the "Omni" powers or Reality Bending, and it may also be accompanied by Empathy.%r%t* Power Adaptation, also called Ability Adaptation or Power Adapt - ability to only gain superhuman abilities (not superhuman physical features) based on one's situation; this can be used to gain any ability short of the "Omni" powers or Reality Bending, and it is usually brought on consciously (it only adapts the user to combat beings, not buildings, objects or structures, and won't work if the user is unconscious).%r%t* Superiority or Excellence - ability to psychically outdo the abilities and benefits of any desired subject, so they cannot overtake or surpass the user. This can be used when being pursued (one would be able to run just a bit out of reach, and thus never be caught), or to just barely win competitions. The user just barely outdoes the subject who he is up against. Instead of developing an opposite ability to one?s opponent similar to Juxtaposition or regular Reactive Adaptation, one would gain the same abilities, but of a higher caliber, and thus an advantage against one's opponents.%r%r%tThe original version of this ability can be used to get gills by being underwater, gain Superhuman Stamina when tired and the like, although the adaptations go away as soon as they are no longer needed. Although, another version of this ability allows the user to gain immunity to any one attack or few attacks that one has been subject to, i.e. Perspicuity if attacked by Telepathy, Telesthetic Imperceptibility if attacked with Telekinesis, and the like, so that that attack can only hurt the user once before he gains immunity to it (called Reactive Immunity).%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If one with Superiority, Juxtaposition or normal Reactive Adaptation were to get into a fight with another who had Superiority, Juxtaposition or Reactive Adaptation, the two would both suffer an incredibly painful biological backlash (the two would be psychically incapable of adapting to each other).
&POWER_REPLICATION Power Info Database=Replication, also called Cloning or Copying is the ability to produce copies of oneself by one of a number of ways. The first means is psionic projection and solidification of perfect copies from the user's mind (the projections are corporeal thought-waves). The second means is accomplished by actually splitting off a piece of oneself, or undergoing rapid cellular mitosis (one would need to be naked to do this, so as not to tear one's clothes), so one's cells multiply to generate a copy of oneself.%r%r%t* Duplication or Binary Fission is the ability to physically or psionically generate only one Replicate at a time; the actual user himself counts as the second self.%r%t* Triplication is the ability to physically or psionically generate up to two Replicates at a time; the actual user himself counts as the third self.%r%t* Quadruplication is the ability to physically or psionically generate up to three Replicates at a time; the actual user himself counts as the fourth self.%r%t* Quintuplication is the ability to physically or psionically generate up to four Replicates at a time; the actual user himself counts as the fifth self.%r%t* Decaplication is the ability to physically or psionically generate up to nine Replicates at a time; the actual user himself counts as the tenth self.%r%t* Centuplication is the ability to physically or psionically generate up to ninety-nine Replicates at a time; the actual user himself counts as the one-hundredth self.%r%t* Milliplication is the ability to physically or psionically generate up to nine-hundred-ninety-nine Replicates at a time; the actual user himself counts as the thousandth self.%r%t* Reduplication is the superhuman ability in which replicates can also replicate themselves; they can only replicate themselves the number of times that the root user can replicate.%r%t* Vegetative Replication is the ability to physically or psionically replicate oneself, but only while in a vegetative/nearly-comatose state; the user replicates through rapid cellular mitosis, similar to a fungus.%r%r%tUsually, the replicates can be injured -- even fatally -- without causing physical harm to the Root, the user, but if the "root" user is killed, the "branches" die as well (illusory/mentally-generated replicates vanish immediately if the user is incapacitated/killed). If they don't die upon the user's death, which is only possible for non-illusory copies, the user possesses a faculty called Replicate Individuality.%r%r[space(2)][ansi(h,Note:)] If the user's replication number doesn't fall under any of the numbers above described, then it is just called Replication (there is no need to be specific; those are just the most common numbers).
&POWER_TELEPORTATION Power Info Database=Teleportation is the superhuman ability to psychically move from one locale to another without occupying the space in between the two locations. There are numerous types of teleportation, besides the normal ?popping? out of one place and into another:%r%r%t* Astral Teleportation or Astraportation - Phasing into (or physically moving into) the Astral Realms at one location, and stepping out into another location (travel is in hyper-time; it seems as though the user moved from one location to another instantaneously).%r%t* Beacon Teleportation or Anchored Teleportation - Teleportation accomplished with a beacon, so that teleportation cannot be diverted or negated (or hindered by distance). The beacon can usually be reset at any time by the user's will.%r%t* Blinking - Teleportation is accompanied by a blinking light and/or a blinking sound.%r%t* Bubble Teleportation - Teleportation through "bubbles" or domes of psionic energy set at the starting point and the destination point.%r%t* Catoptric Teleportation or Mirror Travel - Teleportation into or between any two mirrors or reflective surfaces (only on the current plane), or possibly the ability to teleport subjects into mirrors, trapping them within (called Mirror Trapping or Catoptric Trapping).%r%t* Doorway/Gateway Teleportation, also called Door/Gate Travel - Teleportation by stepping into any door or through any (archway) gate and stepping out into any other door in the user's range%r%t* Dream Teleportation, also called Oneiric Teleportation or Dream Travel - Teleportation accomplished during sleep; the user's REM sleep affects the space-time continuum, teleporting the user to wherever he dreams of (if the place exists); this ability may be accompanied by Hibernation and/or Lucid Dreaming.%r%t* Elemental Teleportation, also called Sympathetic Travel - Teleportation is accomplished through only a certain element (Pyroportation: teleportation through fire, Hydroportation/Aquaportation: teleportation through water, Geoportation/Terraportation: teleportation through earth, Aeroportation: teleportation through wind, etc.) from one location with that element to another.%r%t* Fading - Teleportation in which the user seems to slowly fade away at one point and then fade in at another point.%r%t* Flaming - Teleportation in which the user is surrounded by intense heat, light and flame (and sometimes smoke).%r%t* Reconstitution, also called Reconstruction - the user's body's molecules disassemble at one point and come back together at another.%r%t* Shimmering or Sparkling - Teleportation which is accompanied by a glowing aura and a flurry of sparkles.%r%t* Smoking or Smogging - Teleportation in which the user vanishes in a puff of smoke, surrounded by smoke (or in a smoky form) and then reappears at another point.%r%t* Spatial Anchoring, also called Teleportation Resistance - Ability to refuse to be teleported by force; the user of this ability can also prevent the teleportation and time-travel (or Dimensional Travel) of others.%r%t* Spatial Transportation or another version of Transportation - Ability to only teleport others (only living subjects) to or from oneself; the ability to teleport oneself and others does not count as Spatial Transportation.%r%t* Stalking - Teleportation which only follows others (if the subject teleports, the user teleports); or the user attunes himself to a person and can do one (or both) of two things; he may be able to instantly teleport wherever the subject is; or every time the subject leaves the user's sight, he can elect to teleport to their vicinity.%r%t* Starhopping, also called Intergalactic Teleportation, Distant Teleportation or Far Teleportation - Teleportation only allowing one to go far distances; if one must teleport to a close location, one must first go to the distant location (perhaps another planet or a few light-years away to a Dyson Sphere) and then back to the proper location on Earth; as such, this ability may be accompanied by Vacuum Adaptation and/or a Spatial Sense.%r%t* Telepathic Teleportation, also called Psychic Teleportation or Psychoportation - Teleportation accomplished by psionically converting the user's body into a thought wave, then traveling into the mind of a subject, and jumping from that mind to the mind of a person at the desired destination.%r%t* Teleportation Diversion - Ability to divert the destination of a subject's teleportation. The user of this power must know what the place looks like or the teleporter will just "jump" to any random location%r%t* Trade Teleportation, also called Switching or Trading - the ability to psychically distort space to exchange one subject with another. The user can trade himself out of a disadvantageous situation, into an advantageous position, held by another person. He can even use it to teleport any subject, but it often requires that an object or subject of similar size take the teleported object's place.%r%t* Zapping - Teleportation is accompanied by a zapping sound and/or crackles of electricity or some other type of energy.%r%r%tSometimes, a person with these abilities can move short distances (i.e. from this house to this house), or intermediate distances (i.e. from this street to this street), while most superhumans with this ability can also move vast distances (from this country to this country, or world to world), as long as it's within the same dimension or time.
&POWER_TELESTHESIA Power Info Database=Telesthesia is sensing at a distance, and is an obvious compliment to Telekinesis and Telepresence. This ability allows the users of this ability to remotely sense stimuli that interact with the user of the ability, but you also maintain your current consciousness, so it's not like you're in a different place; one simply perceives in multiple places at once. One with this ability would also have either the ability Telepresence, Telepathy or Telekinesis.%r%r%tSometimes one with this ability may have superhuman senses, so that their senses help the sense capacity of others, instead of the other way around (called Sense Lending).
&POWER_VOCAL-MIMICRY Power Info Database=Vocal Mimicry or Voice Mimicry is the ability to innately mimic any sound with extreme accuracy. However, the accuracy depends on the number of times the user of the power has heard the sound or how well he remembers the sound. This can range from mimicking a voice to deceive a foe to imitating jungle sounds to keep from blowing one's cover. The user must have heard the sound or voice at least once (or at least have a good idea what it sounds like) to mimic it. The more the user hears a voice or sound, the more accurate the reproduction. This ability is usually accompanied by another vocal faculty.
&POWER_XENOGLOSSY Power Info Database=Xenoglossy is the name of two fairly related faculties. The first is the ability to temporarily learn a language instantly when needed, allowing one to crack codes and understand languages as needed. This ability may work through intuition, or possibly an increased intelligence, although the language is not always retained after needed use. The second is the ability in which a person is able only to speak the language(s) of subjects present, whether you yourself know the language or not (this range only includes people). Either or both is capable of surfacing in one user.%r%r%tAnother version of this ability includes the ability to write in other languages, accents, stresses, punctuation and all, as well (called Xenography).
&POWER_X-RAY-VISION Power Info Database=X-Ray Vision is the ability to perceive X-Rays as visible light, allowing one to see through most objects. This ability allows one to see through less dense materials, (even to see through the armor, clothes and muscles to only see the subjects' bone structure). However, this cannot be used if more than one dense material is placed in front of another, or if the material is too dense, which will appear opaque to the eyes. This ability may or may not be able to be turned off at will, and could be accompanied by another aspect of vision.
&POWER_GRAVITY-MANIPULATION Power Info Database=Gravity manipulation is the ability to control and manipulate the force of gravity. It can be used to do a variety of things, including achieving flight, creating vortexes, creating gravitational shields and removing gravity.
&POWER_DIMENSIONAL-STORAGE Power Info Database=Dimensional storage is the ability to put objects into other dimensions for storage and safe-keeping, and then retrieve them. This ability can be used to store objects, making them vanish to be kept safely and hidden in another dimension. It is also used to return the objects from the other dimension to this one. Users are unable to store any living things in this manner, and will kill them if they attempt to do so.
&POWER_SUPERCHARGING Power Info Database=Supercharging (also referred to as "red lightning") is the ability to amplify the abilities of other evolved humans. This ability can also generate a concussive energy blast and be used similar to an electric shock. It remains unknown whether or not the user of this ability may amplify his or her own ability, and what the effects would be. It is also unclear whether passive, "automatic" abilities such as rapid cell regeneration can be amplified.
&POWER_SUGGESTION Power Info Database=Suggestion is the psionic ability to control the actions and thoughts of another individual through spoken commands. The ability appears to have a telepathic component, but it has not been shown used solely through telepathic projection; the command must be spoken in order to have an effect.%r%r%tVictims appear to have a confused recall of events that occurred while under the influence of this power.%r%r%tSuggestion is a distinctive, often trance-like mental state that is indused by an organized pattern of suggestions, usually verbal in nature, beginning with the suggestion of relaxation. The suggestions may be directly induced by a hypnotist in the presence of the subject, but may also be self-induced (self-hypnosis or autohypnosis/auto-suggestion). The word 'hypnosis' itself is the invention of 19th century Scottish physician James Braid.
&POWER_LIE-DETECTION Power Info Database=Lie Detection is the ability to tell when someone is lying.
&POWER_ABILITY-ACTIVATION Power Info Database=*|Power Activation, also called Power Manifestation or (Power) Manifestation Inducing is the ability to jump-start latent superhuman powers in others. One with this ability simply opens the part of the mind or accesses the DNA that allows the activation of superhuman abilities and faculties within that subject. They cannot bestow abilities; they only release or activate those which are inherently present in the subject's DNA. Used offensively, they can cause abilities to act on their own, or can cause a subject to use their powers when they don't want to (this is called Power Liberation).
&POWER_ABILITY-BESTOWAL Power Info Database=*|Power Bestowal is the ability to psychically rearrange the genetic structure or thought patterns of a subject, in order to bestow him with superhuman ability, through physical contact. One with this ability can sometimes give a subject nearly any ability short of Reality Bending and the "Omni" abilities, but the more powerful abilities are more difficult. Although for an untrained subject, it can lead to serious injury if one attempts to bestow such a power. This power may also be accompanied by Power Negation.%r%r%tA faculty of this superhuman ability, called Power Residue or Ability Passing, allows the user to use any other superhuman abilities he might have (besides Power Residue itself), and then if a subject touches the target on which the ability was used (or touches the user), the subject will temporarily gain that same ability or a similar ability. This ability may remove abilities entirely from the user, passing them onto the desired subject either temporarily (capable of being taken back) or permanently.
@set Power Info Database=SAFE